ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u1	The next item is the debate on anti-poverty policies. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts: first, we will hear speakers from the groups and then the Minister for Solidarity and Health. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u2	Eat five fruits and vegetables a day: a slogan that seems simple to follow, except when you're poor. On the other hand, skipping a meal, depriving oneself, preferring quantity rather than quality: this is the daily life of people in situations of great insecurity. While France is world-renowned for its gastronomy, eating, it is above all, for more than 10 million French people today, a simple element of survival. Coluche said in 1985: "I am tired of seeing the poor starve in the country of food. It must be noted that the situation has not improved in any way, and has even worsened. If there's one thing going on in this stationary republic, it's the impoverishment of a growing part of the population. How can we still negotiate a vital need in the sixth world power and the first agricultural power of the European Union? Why does France now have eight times more people living in poverty than in the 1980s? How can we get out of this paradox and defuse the social time bomb that is the health crisis? We would have sadly become accustomed to counting the 9 million French people living below the poverty line; Unfortunately, the Covid-19 decided otherwise, tipping an additional 1 million people into this situation. We anticipate worse consequences than those of the 2008 crisis, and what you are proposing is not up to it. While there is a shortage of volunteers and stocks to meet the growing needs after the wave of successive confinements, while associations suffer from a collapse of donations and grants revenues, the situation is alarming. Only ambitious action and strong political commitment can reverse these inequalities of destiny. It is no longer a matter of relying solely on the involvement of associations to remedy the insufficient action of the public authorities. The Restos du coeur, the food banks, the Red Cross, so many associations are trying to adapt to the constant increase in the number of beneficiaries. They play an essential role in supporting many families, but it is up to the state – sometimes absent – to allocate the necessary funds to help them cope with the crisis. You focus on the first of the ropes, but don't ignore the social difficulties of our other fellow citizens. Indeed, the poorest people appear today as the big losers of your ads, and the arrival of the coronavirus was a blow of a club in a breathless French system, draped in an arrogant certainty of being the best. A poverty plan with limited ambitions, insufficient bonuses: you seek to camouflage the problem instead of solving it. Food insecurity was a problem yesterday; It is now catastrophic because it is accentuated by sometimes aberrant political decisions. For example, the Head of Government has proposed an emergency plan that has disappointed the associations: the one-time assistance of 150 euros for young people in difficulty is a first step, but it cannot in any way respond to the lasting crisis facing this population. How can we get out of a precarious situation with temporary help? The premium does not solve a fundamental problem, which persists and gets worse every day. To ensure that eating well is not the prerogative of an elite, people must be given the means to feed themselves properly. It is about respect for man, for the other and for his living conditions. The right to food is not only access to an adequate amount of food, but also the possibility of a balanced diet. It is high time to become aware of the dichotomy between a strategy that seeks to promote processed foods and a strategy favourable to local food systems and short circuits. To move from the first to the second, I strongly support the proposal to introduce a food check that would help vulnerable households access quality products and turn to a healthy and local diet, more in line with the environmental imperatives we know. I invite you, Mr. Minister, to bring together the major providers of large-scale distribution orders to drive a national action of fixing and freezing an accessible price for a panel of high-quality food references.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u3	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u4	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Every year, in France, 10 million tons of food, or 20 kilos per French, go to the trash. This corresponds to EUR 16 billion – a figure to be compared to the EUR 12 billion estimated to cost the creation of a food check. The Act of 11 February 2016 on combating food waste, known as the Garot Act, obliges commercial areas of over 400 square metres to contract with charitable associations to distribute unsold food. I propose to lower this threshold to 200 square meters to include all city signs, often under the flag of large signs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I invite all of you to remember these few figures: 8 million French people are forced to resort to food aid; 21% of French people find it difficult to eat three meals a day; 20% of French people struggle to settle their children's canteens. It is no longer appropriate to be content with promises to stop food insecurity. Housing, caring, feeding are fundamental rights for a dignified life. Require the State to guarantee these rights to all, is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u5	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u6	At the end of the first confinement, the group Mouvement Démocratique et Démocrates Allied had already asked the Government about the worsening of the precarious situation in France due to the health crisis and the devastating consequences of the crisis on a population that was already severely weakened: 1 million new poor in addition to the 9.3 million of our compatriots who were subjected daily to anxiety and uncertainty about access to care and education. The Government, so unjustly criticized by the opposition in recent months, cannot suffer from comparison with neighbouring countries. For yes, among the democrats, we say this: public action has been at the rendezvous to provide answers to the unprecedented health crisis that still persists throughout the national territory, a crisis whose repercussions in economic, social, cultural, psychological and democratic matters – the restrictions of freedoms – are unheard of violence for many French people. All ministries have been mobilized in recent months, and remain mobilizable, to support the most precarious purchasing power. In order to quickly and sustainably recover the French economy, an exceptional €100 billion recovery plan was deployed by the Government in three main areas: ecology, competitiveness and cohesion. A recovery plan for all, especially for young people: the €6.7 billion hiring incentives have helped set the foot in the cascade to 750,000 of them – those who arrive on the labour market every year. The scheme "a young person, a solution" has resulted in the creation of an exceptional aid for the recruitment of apprentices: 5000 euros for the recruitment of an apprentice under 18 years of age, 8000 euros for a major apprentice. Exceptional assistance of EUR 150 for young non-students and scholarship students was also granted. Solutions for social and vocational integration and integration through economic activity have been offered to people who are far from employment. Housing and accommodation conditions have been adapted. In total, almost €2 billion has been mobilised to finance new measures to combat poverty, in addition to the 8 billion of the strategy deployed so far. The Solidarity Mission's funding this year will amount to €26.12 billion. I noted with great satisfaction that last autumn the Prime Minister announced additional measures for the most vulnerable, with a plan of EUR 1.8 billion, in addition to the measures taken during the crisis of EUR 1.5 billion and the recovery plan of EUR 6 billion. The precarious situation affecting young people, but also massively single-parent families, has also prompted our President, Emmanuel Macron, to extend the public maintenance service to all parents on 1 January, which already benefits 10000 families for 85 million euros in 2021. Other measures have been taken, such as the creation of care leave or the support and accompaniment of vulnerable ESATs – institutions and support services through work. Yet poverty in the territories has become more intense. In Moselle, one in seven, or 145,300 people, lives below the poverty line. This represents an average poverty rate in the department of 14.6%, equivalent to that observed in the Great East and France from the interior. Half of the Mosellans live on less than 1729 euros a month. The median income level of poor people in Moselle, at 832 euros per month, is 20.1 per cent lower than the poverty line. In Thionville, for example, the town-district of the North Moselle, it is 22.1%. This more intense poverty is therefore also reflected in strong inequalities in the territory, in particular due to the presence of high incomes, to a significant extent, by cross-border workers. In September 2018, Emmanuel Macron announced a reflection on the creation of a universal basic income. Concertation had been conducted, but the negotiations had not yet resolved the questions surrounding its financing. The idea of an active guarantee of social mobility will come back to the debate in a forthcoming legislature, because human dignity has no cost or price. The increase in poverty cannot become acceptable because it would become widespread, and the crisis reveals an obvious fact: the social minimums of ordinary times are insufficient in difficult times. They are no longer safety nets, they are no longer enough to restore a path of insertion, to stop the uncertainties of everyday life. Humanitarian associations regularly point out that in our country, the sixth largest power in the world, poverty is not a problem, but a scandal. As my archpriest told Hayange, in our recent conversation, for us who are safe from need, it remains a debate; But for Jason, Sandrine or Malika, it is an attack on their dignity, an attack on human dignity, and thus on ours. We must now make a political choice, that of a united and united society, so that misery does not condemn our fellow citizens to the separatism of social deliaison and, to quote Albert Camus, to "this internal exile that separates millions of men from their own country".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u7	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u8	In October 2018, the President of the Republic and Agnès Buzyn, then Minister of Solidarity and Health, presented a plan to combat poverty, a set of reforms and measures announced as ambitious and unprecedented, benefiting from an allegedly unprecedented budget of €8.5 billion, the bulk of which is actually pre-existing. What's going on three years later? In 2021, more than 300,000 people still live on the street. In 2021, there are still slums in France. In 2021, there are still more than 9 million French people living below the poverty line. In 2021, a health, economic and social crisis ravages France, deepens inequalities and only accelerates the precarization of the most modest. The closure of many companies and the threat to many of those trying to survive the crisis do not bode well for the future of their employees. The rise in unemployment, which has increased in recent months, has raised fears of a catastrophic increase in the number of people using the RSA – active solidarity income – living below the poverty line. The policies of the last three years in the fight against poverty are more like communication operations than measures that have a real impact on the lives of our most vulnerable citizens. I am thinking in particular of the reform of the AAH, the allowance for adults with disabilities, which, if it has allowed a moderate increase in the aid granted to its beneficiaries, has drastically reduced the number of these beneficiaries. Less beneficiaries, more people dependent on their spouses and thus, in fact, no real improvement for people with disabilities. In 2018, Macron struggled to present solutions to combat the growing precariousness of our fellow citizens. But he already forgot some of them, who are now among the first victims of the economic consequences of the health crisis. I am referring to young people between the ages of 18 and 25, to precarious students, to active young people who struggle to enter the labour market in a sustainable way, and to those who are unable to complete their higher education under the best conditions, mainly for financial reasons. Since 2009, the cost of student life has been increasing steadily and, with him, inevitably, student insecurity is increasing. Almost half of the students are forced to combine work and studies to live, which has an impact on their success and their physical and mental health. The Observatoire des Inequalités, in its recent report on poverty in France, estimates the rate of young people aged 18 to 25 living below the poverty line at 12.8% – a level twice as high as the national average. The health crisis has only exacerbated the precarization of young people. Loss of student jobs, difficulties in integrating into the labour market and ensuring the proper continuation of their education or learning: all these obstacles are increasing for young people at the beginning of their entry into working life. The urgency of their situation is without appeal. What have you proposed to youth over the last three years? Nothing to help him, but rather successive reductions in the aid that are among the most essential for the survival of some young people, namely the APLs – personalized housing aids – which have fallen by almost 100 euros per month since 2017. Financial difficulties should not be a barrier to further education or to job stabilization. This is why the Socialist and related group presented a plan for youth, drawn up by Boris Vallaud and Hervé Saulignac. The establishment of a minimum youth level by creating a universal allocation and a basic income for young people from the age of 18 years seems to us to be an effective solution to help them start their working lives and to relieve them from the burden of the financial difficulties they may face. In response to the crisis, the Government has found ways to deploy emergency assistance. However, these measures are ad hoc and remain insufficient in the long term. We therefore call on the Government to deepen the policy of "whatever it costs", which it seemed to have applied during the last few weeks of health emergency, and to bring true solutions to combat the growing precariousness of our citizens – measures with concrete and perceptible daily effects for the most modest French. Poverty is not only synonymous with financial hardship, it is also a threat to the human rights of those who suffer from it: shelter, food, care and education are the most basic rights of every human being who aspires to live in dignity. The State must guarantee them to all our citizens. I conclude by borrowing from Victor Hugo words spoken in these places, which I think are quite relevant, in these times of crisis, to take stock of the policies of the Government to combat poverty:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u9	We really have to conclude, Mr. Aviragnet!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u10	"You have done nothing as long as the people suffer! You have done nothing as long as there is a part of the people below you who despair! You have done nothing so long as those who are in the strength of age and who work can be breadless! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u11	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u12	If I may, I will use the five minutes that are given to me to entrust you, Minister, with a mission that, contrary to what you think, is not entirely impossible. This mission is simple: as soon as you have the opportunity – let's say tomorrow, after a good night's rest – to convince the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic that, in the face of poverty, which is likely to hit our fellow citizens massively, the only answer is to establish universal income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u13	We went from Victor Hugo to Tom Cruise...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u14	You'll probably tell me, "It's not that simple, MP Valérie, because they don't seem completely convinced of me. » [[Ms. Nadia Essayan applauds]] Let me say this: I propose that you prepare us together for their objections, because I think I can already guess them. Perhaps they will tell you: "But finally, Olivier – I allow myself to use your first name for the purposes of narrative – we will be told that we encourage attendance! "Remember, a Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to Esther Duflo, who demonstrated precisely and scientifically that this belief was false and that relying on individuals through social benefits was actually making them more active and entrepreneurial in their lives. » They will also be able to oppose you: "But finally, Olivier, we will be told that we are destroying the value of work! You can answer them: "No! We do not destroy the value of work, we build the value of activity. In the face of changes in the world of work, in an economy where the rules of wealth creation are changing and careers are changing, universal income gives everyone the means to undertake their lives and take risks. » Perhaps they will tell you: "But finally, Olivier, we will have all the oppositions against us! " Or again: "The society is not ready! To this you will answer that the crisis of the covid-19 has changed the deal, that public opinion now calls of its vows the universal income, that associations, unions, business leaders also do, that the pope called for its establishment, that this assembly voted to open the debate on the universal income and that we hear – it is the miracle of Christmas – our friends of the group The Republicans ask themselves the question of universal income, while our socialist friends have been thinking about it for a long time. We are not far from national union!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u15	National union, it'll be when you're beaten!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u16	Perhaps at last they will tell you "But at last, Olivier, it would cost us too much money! And what would we do with the RUA – universal income from activity? " You will be able to answer them: "I have very good news: in this majority there is a group, the group Action Together, which, with many Members from all political backgrounds, defends an unprecedented and fiscally sustainable solution to create universal income: the citizen base. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u17	I thought you were on the right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u18	This idea makes me talk, I'm happy about it. Minister, once you have responded brilliantly to all these objections and you have courageously advanced all these arguments, perhaps some of them will still be needed. I suggest you conclude with a sentimental note,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u19	Maybe we should leave you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u20	... followed by a historical note, to be sure to win the membership. With regard to the sentimental note, I propose to remind you that in 2016, the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u21	He's the only one missing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u22	... took us to his suite on a promise of emancipation from the French. What more emancipating than universal income, which will allow everyone to emancipate himself from poverty? Finally, of course, you can end with a historical note, by calling for example at the last time that France had the courage to reform, by creating social security in 1945,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u23	Definitely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u24	... to rebuild the country and national solidarity. We would honour ourselves, as our predecessors have done, to launch this year – perhaps with the support of our friends in the group The Republicans, of which I would be very happy – the universal income and the version we propose, the citizen base. This would enable us to meet the enormous challenge posed by poverty, which could overwhelm our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and Dem groups]] I wish you good luck, Minister, in carrying out this beautiful mission. Many of us – many – rely on you. We are, indeed, millions of French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, you are all familiar with the exercise that is taking place this evening. There are not many of us in the Chamber. If I can understand that we are intervening to make arguments, systematically interrupting the speaker, as has just been done, does not seem to me to be a good method, especially since several speakers still have to speak, including one on behalf of the Republican Group, and then you can ask questions. Constant interruptions will not bring much to our debates. I therefore ask you to listen to the speaker. The floor is for Mrs Valérie Six, and for her own sake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u26	The year 2021 must be a year of rebound. It must be the end of the health crisis, thanks to the vaccination which gives us a glimpse of a return to normal life by the second half of the year. Nevertheless, the prospect of a third wave and the circulation of a new, more infectious strain keep us in a state of uncertainty: in view of the growth forecasts for 2021, regularly revised downwards, it would seem that the economic recovery is not for now. The proposed abolition of posts at Danone, Total or Michelin, as well as the prolonged administrative closures of places of life, create anxiety, doubt and insecurity for the French concerned. Poverty is fuelled by fundamental economic and social phenomena. It is a combination of difficulties in maintaining food needs, as well as access to housing, care and fundamental rights. For the IDU and independent group, the fight against poverty cannot be carried out without the local authorities: the state must trust and support the actors on the ground by giving them the means to implement local policies. It is also around this fact that the consensus on the law of 14 December 2020, which prolongs and reinforces the experiment "territory zero long-term unemployed" was built: mass unemployment weakens and threatens our social model. We believe that integration into the labour market is the best way to combat poverty. Working is not just about earning income: it's also about acquiring know-how, making projects, making connections and feeling useful to society. I would like to take for example the commune of Roubaix, in my constituency, which is one of the poorest cities in France: 44.3 per cent of its 96,000 inhabitants live below the poverty line. By comparison, this figure is 19.3% in the European metropolis of Lille and 14.2% in France. This requires the municipality of Roubaix to innovate and be creative in order to get people out of poverty, reintegrate them into employment and enable them to acquire skills. To do this, communities need means: they know the reality of the field, they have ideas, they lack only the means to implement them. The city of Roubaix is an example of creativity in several areas. In particular, I am thinking of circular economy schemes or zero waste missions, all of which contribute to the preservation of the environment while providing jobs. A word for young people, who find themselves, for many of them, in a situation of very worrying precariousness: students have to face loneliness and rely on family solidarity, because student jobs have become scarce with administrative closures. The "youth, a solution" plan is ambitious. Nevertheless, its temporality questions: while the term of most of the arrangements that make up this plan is set at the end of January, the Minister of Labour announced on 3 January that they would be extended, certainly until 31 March. If we welcome this extension, we call the Government's attention to the need for companies to have sufficient visibility. We do not believe that the consequences of the health crisis on youth employment will end on their own in the coming weeks. Therefore, these devices should be retained at least until the end of the year. The violence of the crisis is unheard of. As with any change in society, it is the poorest who suffer the most. The IDU and independent group will remain vigilant to ensure that those most at risk are accompanied in the long term and that no one is excluded from economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u27	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u28	After thirty endless years of mass unemployment society – which was the way for capitalism to achieve some of its objectives, including the dismantling of social conquests achieved in the aftermath of the war – we French, like many others, enter the icy waters of mass poverty. It would be wrong to believe that the phenomenon we face will be limited to the months to come, during which the covid-19 will continue to hit our societies: in ten years, if the structural conditions that lead to mass poverty are not changed, we will still be there. Twenty years from now, we'll still be there! This is evidenced by the state in which we have allowed the territories of the overseas departments and territories to sink, which, from this point of view, prefigure the general situation of our societies: they are not an exception, but a magnifying magnification of the processes at work. I'm talking about it with all the pain we can imagine and most of us feel. We'd like to believe it won't last, but no! Covid-19 put us to the test. However, we do not overcome this ordeal, because all the bases that we would need to act on, those built by previous generations, both in the left-wing governments and in the Gaullist governments, have been destroyed one after the other. Public services have been privatized and, gradually, we are reaching the point where even networks of associative and charitable solidarity are carried away. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Who would have told me that one day I would transform, as all my comrades have done, a parliamentary permanence in place of collecting food and clothing to help associations, which today represent the first and the main front line? We're here. At this moment, forgetting the necessity of political controversy with the Government – it is quite normal because it is it that manages the affairs at present – I prefer to say that in reality my deepest conviction, and that of my friends, is that nothing at all will change if we do not change the basic conditions of the organization of society. For, at a time when we are talking about poverty, considerable fortunes continue to accumulate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u30	...providing the demonstration that any mass misfortune in society does not reach the richest, does not concern them, and that during that time, good business continues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u31	Sanofi!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u32	Poverty is not just a monetary phenomenon. Of course this is a lack of income. But it is also a human phenomenon, a phenomenon of society. You are not the same when you live without being able to eat or feed your children, without being able to wash yourself, as is the case in certain areas of the good city of Marseille. You're not the same when you're cold because you can't heat up, when you don't have electricity to light up. No, we're not the same. A childhood is missed, a youth is missed, a life is ruined. And what do we do then? We take place in a society, the only one that accepts you, the one that is completely destroyed and that takes you into its networks of parallel economy, arrangements, combinations of all kinds. We cannot lay the stone on those who have found by this means a way to survive when they would have wanted to live differently, to live dignifiedly, to live on normal incomes linked to their participation in the life of society. There are 300,000 homeless, 4 million poorly housed, 8 million people who use food aid, 600,000 who suffer from gas and electricity cuts due to unpaid payments, and 2 million people to whom water is cut, a yet illegal practice that companies use while distributing droplets to be able to claim that the flow continues. Poverty is not the scourge of the poor but of society as a whole because we do not live innocently in a society that places you in an ocean of poverty. No one can live there otherwise than barricaded, by educating and educating their children to indifference to others. When, faced with a homeless man lying on the ground, your kid asks you what we can do, since you told him we had to help, do you say that we can't do anything? How glad I don't have to take care of little children at home! This is the society that is building up before our eyes. The link between poverty and the spread of the virus, the city of Marseilles would tell you much better than others if it referred to its deep history. Indeed, the memory of the great plague of 1720 and the Grand-Saint-Antoine is still there. Half of the population perished because it was out of state to protect itself. Even today, it is within this poverty that the virus will circulate more than anywhere else. It's time to act. Quick, quick! Out of 100 billion aid, 800 million is allocated to mutual aid. However, everything should be changed, in particular the criteria for income allocation. That 800 million is not enough. I stop there so I don't over-dramatize the painting. Minister, you and I have been used to structured and organized social movements. This time, no one can know what will happen when tens of thousands of traders, artisans and restaurateurs find themselves at the foot of the wall of social death promised to them by the resurgence of the covid-19 and the closures of establishments – I do not discuss their principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u33	Mr. Member of Parliament, we must conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u34	The five minutes have passed, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] From then on, the homeland will be exposed, under particularly difficult conditions, to a dislocation force that will come from within.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u36	Mr Minot, I have allowed all the speakers to exceed their speaking time. At the time of the questions, I'll be more strict.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u37	And I thought you were interested in me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u38	Frankly, what is thirty seconds in a life?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u39	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u40	Much has been said or written about the current health crisis, its scale, roots, developments and concerns. Its social dimension is brutal, violent. It increases the precariousness in our country, dangerously degrading the living conditions of a part of the French – always the same. What a mistake in appreciating that the worsening of poverty since March 2020 is a strictly cyclical phenomenon! The catastrophic figures we have come up with have been confirmed. At the end of the year, the RSA saw its beneficiaries increase by 8% and its expenditures by 10%. The latter could still grow by 15 per cent in 2021. According to charities, the 10 million French under the poverty line was crossed in 2020. On the ground, the situation becomes difficult to sustain. Associations and CCIS – communal centres for social action – are oversolicited and confronted with new audiences, such as young people or precarious or seasonal workers. The situation of young people is particularly worrying. Thank you to our colleague Marie-George Buffet for highlighting this concern in her recent report on the youth survey of the Covid-19. Let the Government read it and learn from it! The concern is all the greater as the situation of young people has already deteriorated before this black year. While significant measures to support household and business income have been taken by the Government, we regret that the recovery plan and the poverty reduction strategy continue to forget a number of our citizens. The most fragile, those who are long-term away from employment, those who participate in our country's informal economy, those who can be called invisible, are not always affected by aid measures. It is therefore not enough to act on employment and integration alone. It is imperative to understand all the components of poverty, which is not limited to economic insecurity and the problem of access to employment. Poverty is also a problem of access to food, housing, health and culture, among others. They are also steep school paths, with phenomena of social reproduction yet avoidable. Having a job no longer protects from poverty. More than one million workers live on less than 885 euros per month. This phenomenon of poor workers has increased since 2017, as the improvement of employment has taken place at the cost of its flexibility and impoverishment. Let us also mention the poverty of the old age. While we can welcome the increases in the minimum old age since 2017, we should not underestimate the deterioration of the situation of the poor elderly. Finally, rather than seeking a cure for poverty, we must above all change our focus on poverty. We must emerge from the myth of the disincentive effect of social assistance on work, which is not corroborated by any serious study. This speech, however, largely conditions our policies with the result of leaving an increasing number of people on the side of the road. The change of focus on poverty must also lead us to concrete and urgent actions: first of all, we must abandon the reform of unemployment insurance, which has already penalized the unemployed at the end of their rights in a degraded labour market,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u42	... and then increase the social minimums and improve the readability of the use of aid. The exceptional aid provided for in the various budgets adopted in 2020 is clearly insufficient. In this regard, what about the universal income of activity that will prevail tomorrow? But the consequences of the epidemic will legitimize the implementation of such a measure. The AHR must then be opened to young people under 25 years of age. The President of the Republic is not – I quote – a "great fan" of this proposal. However, it is imperative that we equip ourselves with a tool to ensure resources for young people in precarious situations. In the long run, 18-25-year-olds will have to be eligible for the guaranteed minimum income or universal income – no matter what the terminology – only able to create a level playing field for starting out in life. Finally, let us continue and generalize initiatives on the ground in favour of integration through economic activity, such as experimenting with "zero-unemployed territory". They restore trust and dignity and succeed wherever they are launched.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the LT groups and Action ens]] Today, the precariousness and poverty of our fellow citizens force us to respond to the urgency, to anticipate the wave ahead and to imagine new tools of solidarity. The challenge is difficult, but France must live up to it. It is a matter of collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u45	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u46	I gather in my constituency similar testimonies to those documented by solidarity associations. They say that they need help to feed themselves, sometimes for the first time; It speaks of survival rather than life; They attest to the suffering and shame felt because it is difficult to feed their children. They are indicative of a deep-rooted poverty in our country, but also of a new and growing poverty. The associations say so and we see it: with 1 million more people living in poverty, other audiences appear. Among these new people whom solidarity associations see several times a week are many students, young people, single-parent mothers and pensioners. When I mention the million people who have turned into poverty, I do not count the hundreds of thousands of workers who have just been laid off. The 763 social plans recorded since March are often made up of companies that benefit from public money – and not just a little. Michelin recently announced the abolition of 2,300 posts in France. We know this, especially in Picardie, where I come from: waves of suicide are emerging – there is the sad example of what happened at Whirlpool or Goodyear. Since the beginning of the crisis, the number of beneficiaries of food aid has increased by 30 per cent, that of RSA applicants by 10 per cent, and many precarious workers are turning into poverty. In the face of this, the Government continues to apply its theory of runoff, considering that it is not necessary to invest a "crazy money" in social policies and that the fight against inequalities must never tackle the capture, the plundering of wealth by capital, implying that social policies would make the poor more lazy or more assisted. This premise, it must be said clearly, is not based on any solid foundation. There is no evidence that access to decent social benefits would result in a decline in the number of employees or an increase in the number of persons seeking employment. On the contrary, it turns out that they have an encouraging effect. The impoverishment of our society is therefore a hindrance to development, including economic development. Reducing competitiveness to the question of labour costs, which is reduced by reducing social rights, is a poor country strategy. But we are not a poor country. For both human and economic reasons, poverty must be eradicated. It is not the crumbs of the recovery plan that will achieve this goal, Minister. Yes, there is an urgent need to upgrade the social minimums and permanently abandon your unemployment reform. This is only a basis for initiating the necessary ecological and social bifurcation aimed at well-being, which gave rise to hope during the first confinement. Quality of the links, meaning in our lives, in our productions and in our creations, shared power and protected planet: to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to invest in public research, to build quality social housing and to launch an ambitious policy of creating public jobs in the sectors of education, early childhood and seniors. Like others, I want to stress the special needs of young people, who have suffered particularly from the devastating effects of this crisis, as my colleague Marie-George Buffet demonstrated in her report. Nearly half of people in poverty are under 30 years old, 18-25 years old are on the front line and do not have access to the AHR. That is why, together with associations, we support the request to open the RSA to this age group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u47	It's easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u48	We also support the request of the student unions that the student scholarship be extended from 10 to 12 months and that the ticket set up for the fellows, to the tune of 1 euro, allow them to make two meals a day and not one as is currently planned. So yes, we must finance these measures by urgently tackling tax evasion. I say attack and not discuss or negotiate to recover a few million: only the ultra-rich are entitled to these politenesses, never the most modest. Your tax choices since the beginning of the mandate have further exacerbated inequalities, you have made money for the richest people in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u49	It's been proven!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u50	It is still so useful to those who need it, by restoring the ISF, the solidarity tax on wealth, and even by introducing a climate ISF. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. Hervé Berville also applauds]] Eradicating poverty is not an illusory goal, but it requires a tough political will. Tonight, we all talked about the numbers of poverty; If they are obviously useful for quantifying and analysing, "we don't cry in front of numbers," as Abbé Pierre said, we cry behind coffins. We're not asking you for tears, we're just asking you to shoulder your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u51	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Before the health crisis, France had more than 8 million poor people – that was said – in spite of very proactive public policies and a social model envied by many countries. In view of this, the President of the Republic launched, a little over two years ago, a national strategy aimed not only at combating poverty but also, above all, at preventing it. Before proceeding further with my remarks, I would like to pay tribute to our colleague Christelle Dubos for his work for two years as Secretary of State for the deployment of this strategy, which, let us recall, is based on a principle of contracting between the State and the departments with a territorial approach in order to best meet the expectations of the French. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, there would have been no contract. I would also like to associate Philippe Chalumeau, with whom I co-host a parliamentary working group on poverty, as well as all my colleagues from the majority who are involved in our work. To begin with, those who still doubt the commitment of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u53	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u54	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... to all those who like to describe the President of the Republic as the president of the rich,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u55	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u56	...my answer will be simple and straightforward: 8.5 billion, that is the amount of the envelope dedicated to the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty with a clear objective set by the President of the Republic: to do more for those who have less. [[Claims on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] After two years, the time has come to take stock, and it must be noted that the President's words have led to very concrete actions. I like to say that the words of love are good, but the evidence of love is better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u57	It's true, we want proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u58	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] The poverty plan is first and foremost to ensure real equality of opportunity from childhood onwards, with actions in favour of crèches or the canteen at 1 euro.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u59	It's provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, let the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u61	The poverty plan is also about empowering our young people to succeed by guaranteeing all of them training paths and stepping stones for sustainable employment. Young people's reception and listening points, or the decline in the number of out-of-work children's social assistance, are all measures aimed at accompaniing thousands of young people in situations of great insecurity, de-schooling or de-socialisation. Combating poverty also means ensuring the occupational integration of those furthest from employment, in particular through enhanced support for the beneficiaries of the RSA. This measure is essential when one knows that a person who enters the RSA scheme is still benefiting from it four years later, hence the need to implement the public service of integration and employment which will be deployed in 30 additional territories in March next, in addition to the fourteen currently concerned. In addition to these large-scale and proactive public policies, certain social benefits, such as the AAH, the revalorisation of the activity premium or the energy check, are being revalued, to name but a few examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u62	By digging up the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u63	Yes, this government, more than any other, is committed to fighting poverty and, above all, avoiding it. In addition, since 1 January, important reforms have entered into force, such as the 100 per cent health guarantee guaranteeing better access to care for all, and the maintenance guarantee to guarantee mothers of single-parent families the recovery of unpaid support from their ex-spouse through the family allowance funds. The implementation of the poverty reduction strategy must continue and adapt to the health crisis. To prevent its economic and social impact, schemes such as partial unemployment have helped to protect our fellow citizens and to avoid the shift of precarious populations into poverty. We will, of course, have to continue these efforts and stand up to a crisis that no one had foreseen. It is through collective intelligence that we will succeed in meeting an unprecedented challenge. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In the course of the debate this evening, my question is as follows, Minister: what return do we have, at present, with regard to the efficiency of the various contracts concluded between the State and the departments in the fight against poverty? This contract is based on a principle of mutual commitment and involvement. Ladies and gentlemen, know that "nothing is lonely, everything is solidary," as Victor Hugo wrote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u64	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u65	Tonight, it is poverty and misery that we want to talk about. Poverty and misery, two words that scare us, which we often hesitate to pronounce, as if to avoid facing a terrible reality. We are in 2021 and more than 10 million of our citizens now live below the poverty line, while 8 million are now using food aid to survive and feed themselves. We are in 2021 and all the aid associations for the most deprived warn us about an explosion of their beneficiaries, and it is now new audiences that are pushing the doors of these associations. It is the invisibles of our modern economies: the self-employed, without wealth, who have lowered the curtain for several months; the workers who were cleaning up in three or four different companies; students who have lost their small jobs. They're our new poor people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2021 and the number of poor workers has never been greater. Worker and poor: two words that, associated with each other, say everything about the unbearable injustice that affects millions of our fellow citizens. The work allows the wage, which must allow dignity. Darkening in poverty even when you work or want to work, this is the terrible anomaly that says everything about the unbearable of our time. It is now women, children, who are the new victims of a crisis that we are experiencing today only the first shocks. The exploding needs now include women's and children's hygiene products. Perhaps we need to be clearer: we are in 2021, and women lack diapers for their baby and sanitary towels for themselves. The misery of 2021 is no longer that of the 1800s or 1900s, but it still exists. She no longer has the face of this woman and her baby, who died of cold in the streets of Paris, in the heart of the winter of 1954. It no longer bears the heroic anger of Abbé Pierre, and the misery of our century no longer has the pestilential smell of the Montfaucon dump mentioned by the deputy Hugo in this rostrum in one of his greatest speeches. But poverty is there and poverty is exploding. The budgetary increases and adjustments are so weak in the face of the immense seriousness of the situation. When a country has 10 million poor people, it is forbidden to sleep peacefully. It is forbidden for you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to be self-congratulatory. The current measures are no longer sufficient to contain the explosion of poverty; We don't fight a tsunami with a stack of sandbags. Would we have abandoned the very idea of eradicating misery? Eradicating poverty does not feed on communication effects. This fierce struggle is nourished by acts, and strong acts, such as an ardent moral and democratic demand, until the end of the fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u66	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u67	It is time for courage, political imagination and deep-seated measures. In a period as crazy as the one we live, the fools are the ones who no longer dare to ask themselves the real questions: the question of young people who, between the ages of 18 and 25, do not benefit from any universal arrangements; that of the 10 million tonnes of food products destroyed every year, even when food poverty is growing; the still millions of square meters of vacant real estate in our cities, while the street continues to kill those who don't have a roof.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u68	If you come back to power, you'll have to remember it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u69	This isn't gonna happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u70	These essential battles cannot be partisan. Geneviève de Gaulle-Anthonioz, speaking in this rostrum a major speech against poverty, was not partisan. Jacques Chirac and his companion, Xavier Emmanuelli, founded the social SAMU at a time when politics was great, led a fight that was not a partisan fight. The cry of Abbé Pierre was not a partisan fight. They were simply essential fights. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The fight against poverty, the fight against poverty, is essential. By putting on the agenda a debate on poverty, the Republicans wanted to return to the essentials: it is not only living in good health, but living in dignity. This dignity is gradually moving away from millions of our fellow citizens, and if politics makes sense, it is certainly to fight with all its strength to give everyone the dignity that belongs to him. Today the health challenge obsesses us, soon the challenge of poverty will haunt us. We no longer have the right to ignore it, we have only one urgent duty: the duty to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u71	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u72	Minister of Vaccines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u73	Minister of Logistics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u74	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Pradié, in particular, for the inclusion in the agenda of this debate on the issue of public policies to combat poverty. I thank you because it is Parliament's role to speak on this subject, to make a diagnosis, to share it, but also to make proposals and recommendations. I did not come to deliver a speech on poverty that would be a landmark, with great words and quotations, even though it is important to refer to history. I did not come before you for a self-satisfaction or to recite a long list at the Prévert of the measures put in place showing that we would have done better than our predecessors...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u75	It wouldn't have been credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u76	I came before you to debate, to discuss, to exchange. Whatever our political side, we obviously share the observation and the will to fight poverty and even eradicate it one day. We can each have an open mind, without sending back the ball. Not a government, not a majority of any, in recent decades can be proud of the fact that it has brought about a massive reduction in poverty. Otherwise, we would not be there and tonight's debate would not be about public policies to combat poverty. Once we have said that, we can probably find a way to work together. I apologize for the analogy, you're going to say that it obsesses me – it's not totally wrong – but, I'll define poverty, or rather misery, a bit like a pandemic. This pandemic affects all societies, all the countries of the world are facing it, not just France, without us having identified a vaccine. The finding is clear and, unlike a virus, poverty is not transmitted by hands or saliva, it is transmitted by fate, inheritance, but also by accidents of life, which affect many families. Some have argued that poverty can be hereditary: this determinism is quite unbearable and we must fight it with all our strength. I will try to turn my reasoning into a good doctor, dealing first with the diagnosis, before talking about the different ways that we could find together to fight more effectively against poverty. To make the diagnosis, let us ask ourselves what is in our country the first reason for entering poverty: it is the loss of his job. The associations confirm this. I had the honour of chairing, alongside the President of the Catholic Relief, one of the workshops organized within the framework of the poverty reduction strategy. Associations indicate that one of the main reasons is separation within couples. It is not a question of discouraging them from separating themselves, but a divorce, a new beginning in life, should not be accompanied by the endangerment of their own heritage and therefore that of their current or future children. There are many other factors that we could discuss: I am thinking of health situations, which can make things very difficult. However, I would like to stress the importance of birth determinism: I have been marked by the fact that if you are born into a poor family, it takes on average four to six generations for one of your descendants to get out of poverty. This very strong determinism, the loss of employment and the difficulty of finding one, as well as separations, are the main factors of poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u77	Even when you have a job, you can get a salary of misery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u78	You are right, honourable Member, of course, that poor workers exist, that people do not live properly in their jobs, I have said more than I have said in my turn. Take the example of home helpers or school assistants, who work in occupations that are so important to society or even irreplaceable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u79	And all the little delivery bikes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u80	The confinement showed that the country could not turn without the people who helped the French and French on a daily basis. We realize the importance of home help when we are a vulnerable person: we should not ignore it even when we are not. Let's support those who make the company run, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u81	That's not why we pay them better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As for the too low wages of poor workers, I am very proud from this point of view of the increase in the premium of activity, a real gain in purchasing power for hundreds of thousands of French: it is not I who affirms it, but INSEE. It is possible to share the diagnosis, while considering that our anti-poverty strategy remains insufficient, but it is also possible to consider that some of the measures taken are in the right direction. For if we fail to agree at least on the fact, recognizing that certain measures have helped to combat poverty, or even to reduce it, how do you, ladies and gentlemen, want us to have a chance to find a solution together that will allow us to go even further in the search for ways to combat poverty more effectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u83	The increase in wages is better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u84	Then there is the question of treatment. In medicine, we speak of preventive, curative or palliative treatment. Preventive treatment is designed to escape from poverty a person who has risk factors to fall into or remain in poverty. Boris Cyrulnik gave Adrien Taquet and myself a report of the scientific committee which he chaired on the first 1000 days of the child, composed of very good people – from all political sides, I assure you. This report formulates very interesting measures, aimed at combating this determinism, which I mentioned, which means that if you were born into a poor family, you will have much more trouble getting through life – if you have not read it, I invite you to do so. You voted for one: the development of paternity leave, which allows fathers to be constantly present with the child in the first weeks and thus to avoid too long work breaks for mothers, which make it even more difficult to find a good job. Among the other preventive measures that I believe in, there is another, which your assembly also voted for: the duplication of CP and CE1 classes in priority education and enhanced priority education – REP and REP +. Such duplication is effective because being only twelve in a class facilitates the learning of reading and writing for students from a precarious social environment and living in a particularly fragile context. You've all attended school years: your ridings are stunned, they're all made up of wealthy communes and others that are less so. In addition to schools where 100 per cent of the staff are present on the first day, the father and mother sometimes attend together at meetings of parents of pupils, there are others where re-entry is more difficult. We have to put the package on these schools. In this respect, making schooling compulsory from the age of 3 and up to 18 years is to refuse the idea of leaving children at the edge of the road and decide to accompany them. I remember a very good measure put in place in Grenoble by a socialist mayor: bridge classes allowing to integrate young people from the age of 2 into the school environment in order to give them a better chance of overcoming the inequalities linked to the family environment. I believe, for my part, in all these ways of preventing poverty. As for curative treatment, the first of these is access to employment, which is the first solidarity in our country. Employment brings out of poverty, since the person can then, thanks to his income from work, shop regularly, raise his children in good conditions, buy the means to move, possibly travel, communicate, at least shelter and feed. Governments that drive employment policies – those that have preceded us, and those that will follow us – always have in mind the fact that employment is the first way out of poverty, and that losing it is the main risk of falling into poverty. During the confinement, the Government took measures of partial unemployment to allow, "no matter what the cost", French people prevented, in fact, from working, from continuing to live by always receiving remuneration: do you not think that he made this choice in order to limit poverty in our country? Remember the 2008 economic crisis in Europe: social shock absorbers have allowed France to have three times fewer new poor people than in Germany. Germany and France are often compared in many areas: I have never heard of this fact. So let us not forget the social shock absorbers that we have put in place, not only partial unemployment, but also the accompaniment of craftsmen, traders and other self-employed people. Those of you who point out that poverty has developed in these professional circles, so far relatively spared, are right, especially since these professionals, already affected in their sources of income, also involve their personal wealth – trade is often owned in own funds. It is the honour of the French State to support all these professions as it does, thus showing all our citizens that no one will remain on the edge of the road. The obligation to train and the bonus of activity are also very effective tools for combating poverty. Finally, when all these measures have not been enough, when prevention tools have not been sufficiently developed, when the provisions for retention in employment have not achieved their objectives, when the public concerned are not sufficiently accessible, there is, then, palliative treatment – the term is in no way pejorative: social shock absorbers. These are social benefits. Of course they do and they cost, but they are just as vital. This majority voted for a very large increase of EUR 100 net per month in several benefits: I am thinking not only of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, the ASPA, for those who cannot receive a pension, while they have worked their whole lives, but also of the allowance for adults with disabilities and the rest of them with zero dependants applied since 1 January. I am sure that you received, as I did when I was a Member of Parliament, people from your constituency for whom to speak out was too expensive, since the rest of them were charged per ear at 2000 euros. You also met, like me, people who didn't have enough money to pay for dental prostheses worthy of that name, or people who had broken their glasses and asked you how to get social assistance to be able to replace them. The remaining zero burden is the assurance that no one will now be deprived of all this essential care due to lack of financial means. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to recall the creation of complementary health care, which complements previous arrangements. Social shock absorbers progress year after year, government after government. As for the plan 1 young person, 1 solution, it fits in with the same logic. You mentioned, Mr Mélenchon, the young people attracted by rapin or underground shops, because there is no other possibility for them. But what is the best way to address them today? Of course, thanks to education and the means put in place to eliminate the initial inequalities, let us make sure that there are fewer of them tomorrow, but let us offer them solutions now. The youth guarantee works, as well as internships, vocational training, integration into the workplace, apprenticeship: no young person wishing to benefit from one of these solutions will be deprived of it. We are also taking the necessary steps to get them where they are and to propose these solutions. I believe in this policy! And then, besides diagnosis and treatment, there are the effectors of the fight against poverty: meet your regional commissioners for the fight against poverty – there are in all regions. I gather them very regularly in the ministry to discuss with them all the actions undertaken in the territories – probably they are not sufficiently visible. Go to meet them, because they also need your support wherever they lead these policies to fight poverty. Nor should we forget, of course, the CASCs. My last word will be for the associations. Without associations, there is no system of fighting poverty that stands. They are vital for our country, today and yesterday, and they will be so tomorrow, because they are the ones that allow French people not to starve. I am thinking of the food banks, the Restos du coeur, all these associations that perform these small miracles of everyday life, allowing families on the street to find accommodation more easily or to make ends meet, when they feel deprived of any solution. I know you're going to meet them, and I'm going to meet them, too. I participated in a Social UAS maraud a few weeks ago, which allowed me to meet people who live on the street. I was able to observe the daily activities of these associations by participating, too, in distributions of the Restos du coeur in the streets of Paris in the evening. I realized, as you rightly pointed out, that a new public is now asking for food aid: drivers, delivery agents, self-employed people or students who can no longer carry out the job that allowed them to survive under decent conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u85	There are more and more of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u86	That is why we have put in place emergency measures since the beginning of the crisis. You will tell me that 3 billion euros is both little and many, but they will allow families in precarious situations, especially those with children, as well as students, to survive during this period. We will thus be able to minimize the increase in the number of new poor as a result of this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, Dem and Agir ens]] The link between poverty and the health crisis is obvious. When the associations carried out very early screening operations at the beginning of the first wave and worked hard to protect vulnerable people in emergency shelters and in the homes of poor workers, whether in Île-de-France or elsewhere, we were fortunately surprised to find that very few of these people were positive for coronavirus. But a few months later, when we were able to carry out serological tests, we realized that many had actually had the covid -19, but probably before the others, because the poorest people are also the most exposed to health risks. This double sentence is unbearable. We are all here to discuss it and find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u87	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is strictly limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u88	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of young people, who are also suffering from the economic and social consequences of the crisis. While young people are the age of all possible, the age where one wishes to leave the family cocoon, where one receives his first salary, where one wishes to travel around the world, the reality experienced by our youth for the past year is, alas, quite different. Their entry into adult life is marked by financial insecurity for apprentices and students, who can no longer even find small jobs to finance their studies and their daily lives. Their confidence in the future is darkened as they find it difficult to find a first internship, an alternance contract or a job at the end of their studies. And what about the social and psychological distress that comes upon them, a social and emotional life reduced to the congruous portion, distance courses not always simple to follow, with sometimes even the impossibility of accessing digital and the feeling of living stuck between four walls? What should be years of encounters and pleasures, with a certain carefreeness, has turned into a bridled life, a life of loneliness without perspective, which weighs on their morale. All the actors, local authorities, local missions, food banks, charitable associations, are sounding alarms because they see more and more young people falling into poverty. They all call for a general mobilization to prevent a generation from being sacrificed. Minister, are you going to take new initiatives to respond to this deep crisis, this great distress, which represents a huge challenge for our society? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, the Government had announced, and that was a good thing, the increase in the number of beneficiaries of the youth guarantee. The scheme has proved to be effective, as it has enabled a large number of young people to find employment. But you are now referring to something else: a universal youth guarantee, with the removal of most access criteria. How will you then reconcile the considerable increase in the number of beneficiaries with the need to maintain the link with job search for each young person? How are you going to avoid the risk of keeping young people in attendance instead of getting them out of poverty and precariousness through employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u89	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u90	We are now entering into the concrete. You're asking me about the poverty of young people. Indeed, according to INSEE, out of 5.4 million young adults, about 1.3 million are estimated to be poor. As I said, the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty initially targeted young people. But the crisis, very clearly, has upset the situation. However, it has prompted us to go much further with regard to the arrangements already put in place by this government and others to enable young people to enter the labour market and give them a project. If you look in detail at plan 1 young, 1 solution, what I did, you will see that every young person is really being offered a solution. Again, the whole stake is to get those who say to themselves out of their logic: "It's not for me, I won't do it. They must also be picked up where they are to make proposals. This can be an exceptional aid of 5000 euros to recruit an alternate worker under the age of 18 or an aid of 8000 euros if he is over the age of 18. That's a lot, in any case much more than was planned before. I am also thinking of the compensation of 4000 euros for young people recruited between August 2020 and January 2021, but also of the 100,000 new pre-qualifying or qualifying courses offered to young people who fail in higher education or who lack qualifications. In addition, training in the care sector is planned in conjunction with the regions: we need it because we want to train more caregivers, nurses, stretchers. Finally, it is the support of young people far from employment with the construction of 300,000 tailor-made integration routes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We're going to use everything that exists. We are increasing the resources allocated to the youth guarantee scheme and we will increase them further if there are more candidates because it works. I am thinking of the contractualised path of accompaniment towards employment and autonomy – CAPEA –, the employment path skills – the famous PEC –, the employment initiative contracts – CIS – not to mention the monetary aids that are certainly essential for young people to survive. I really believe in all the arrangements that we are putting in place, which amount to several billion euros a year, Mr President. They allow, once again, to offer a professional solution, and a future, for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u91	It's not just about money!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u92	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You mentioned the role of associations, Minister. I would like to draw the spotlight on the latter, since they are often the ones who sound the alarm and explain the situation in everyday life. Members of the Republican Group have wanted this debate on poverty because the figures give rise to vertigo: we have exceeded the 10 million poor, almost one in six Frenchmen! It is the charities that are on the front line, and I would like to pay tribute to them and to their tens of thousands of volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u95	In 2020, to feed, 6 million Frenchmen pushed the door to an associative or territorial structure, as communities took over, 10% more than the previous year. The associations are warning about the arrival of new audiences: young people, self-entrepreneurs, sometimes, certain liberal professionals – to the surprise, perhaps, of some –, temporary workers, intermittent workers or even seasonal workers. All were once preserved. From now on, having a job no longer protects from precariousness, this has been recalled. And in the face of this social pandemic, while the fight for employment is paramount, given the economic situation, it cannot be the only answer. This is why associations need more support. The financial aid of EUR 100 million for them is insufficient. I want to point out that many communities need to supplement it through grants. If solidarity should, according to the associations, be able to spend the winter, in the medium term the situation is obviously going to deteriorate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, Minister, what measures do you intend to take to prevent the social crisis from leading to overflowing, or even exploding, of the number of demands? You recalled earlier: it is really thanks to the associations that we will be able to get out of it and bring this complement. What action will the Government take to their attention? They're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u96	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u97	I could answer soberly that 100 million euros of support with a call for projects to associations, this has never been done before, which you will see if you refer to the archives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u98	The situation is out of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u99	We agree that the situation is out of order, but when you say that nothing is done or that the action of the Government is insufficient, "when you compare yourself, you console yourself", as they say. This calls for modesty because, in this case, we must all be modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u100	We do not say that nothing is done, but you list the mechanisms in place as poverty increases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u101	[[Mr Aurélien Pradié and several other Members of the LR Group exclaimed]] Beyond supporting the associations, which are valuable to the territories, I think we need to change the way we look at them in order to carry out a policy of evaluating what works or what is innovative. I know of countless associations that have put in place innovations that are running smoothly in their territory and that are funded on an experimental basis for a year, two years, three years, after which everything stops for lack of money. We don't generalize what works, and sometimes we continue to fund less well-functioning devices. Anglo-Saxons call "What Works" a methodology for evaluating associations' projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u102	Mr. Pradie...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u103	Relax, Mr. Pradie, everything's gonna be fine. I discovered that it was less expensive for a family to buy a new, therefore clean, electric car through a microcredit offered by associations than to keep an old diesel that will be much more expensive for maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u104	What does it have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u105	Associations have a lot of ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u107	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] They launch a lot of innovations and they have often pushed us on the train, by the way. They ask us to help them on the basis of sectoral criteria: for example, the raising of the 75 per cent grant ceiling to 1000 euros for associations working in the field of food aid, the famous Coluche measure, which the Government decided to extend in 2021. We listen to associations when they defend projects and need the state to be at their side. Again, we can always do better, MP, and we will do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u108	What would be better is for you to answer the questions we ask you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u109	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u110	First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the Republican Group for putting this debate on the fight against poverty on the agenda, a subject that affects all of us, a subject that is certainly very broad but of vital importance to all of us here. Poverty is, unfortunately, a topical issue. The Observatoire des Inequalités has released the second edition of its report on poverty, which unfortunately shows that it is progressing. A section is devoted to the situation of young people and the observation is instructive: the poverty rate for the 18-29 age group increased by 50 per cent between 2002 and 2018. We all have a duty to move forward also in a spirit of co-construction, because the crisis of the covid-19 is the most serious crisis that France has experienced since the advent of the Fifth Republic. It accentuates the exposure of precarious populations, as indicated by Anne Brunner, director of studies of the Observatory. In terms of financial support and access to employment, the Government has been putting in place strong measures since the beginning of the legislature. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] Before the crisis of the coronavirus, unemployment was decreasing. As you pointed out, Minister, for several months the virus has changed everything. The national anti-poverty strategy, inaugurated by the President of the Republic in September 2018, brings together unprecedented decisions to combat insecurity. This strategy now has its full meaning and it is my question, particularly about rural life. In my constituency, in the south of the Gironde, some of our fellow citizens suffer from problems of precariousness peculiar to our countryside: lack of activities, skills, housing and means of transport. At the beginning of 2021, what initial assessment do you draw up of the national strategy to combat poverty and what are its effects, particularly in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u111	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u112	You are right to point out that poverty is even more specific sometimes in rural areas: people are less mobile, there is less employment, so more unemployment, there is this culture of hiding what is wrong – it is often said that people in the rural world are harder to suffer, but they are also hard to suffer from poverty – there are all the difficulties of everyday life such as the lack of nursery places, the lack of means to keep their child... This is why the national poverty reduction strategy includes a component for rural areas. So, with regard to the feeding of children – we have talked little about it but it counts a lot – the social pricing of school canteens with a meal of less than 1 euro is proposed with a gradual increase in the system over the next two years. Some 10,000 rural communes will therefore be able to propose such a rate. In addition, on 24 October, the Prime Minister announced a mobility aid for an additional 100,000 job seekers with the development of new mobility platforms and solidarity micro-credit schemes, which I mentioned earlier and which I very much believe in. I am also thinking of the social reception, with a goal set by the President of the Republic: that we cannot be more than thirty minutes from the first social reception point. However, I observed that, already in early 2020, most departments provided front-line coverage. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] Finally, the challenge for rural areas is that, while maintaining its particularities – so that sometimes we will look for it because we are tired of the city – we can also develop employment areas and, thanks to digitisation, we have access to the same services and the same means of developing industrialization. Why don't these territories create jobs, wealth? There is no reason not to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u113	You forget the role of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u114	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u115	The crisis of the coronavirus affects young people at full speed. It revealed the fragility of the student condition, structurally precarious for its most part. In my department, the Sarthe, as in the whole country, the associations sound the alarm. Too many are under 25 years of age and the need for food, social and information technology assistance is growing. There is therefore an urgent need to act. Unlike the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the crisis of the covid-19 on children and young people, anti-poverty associations and trade union organisations, which advocate the opening up of active solidarity income, the RSA, at the age of 18-25, you wish to generalize the principle of accompaniment of the youth guarantee created under the quinquennium of François Hollande, it must be recalled. This has proved to be an effective mechanism, and we very much welcome it. But by limiting yourself to vocational integration, which is commendable but problematic in the current situation, you cannot respond quantitatively to the structural massification of the precariousness of young people. By announcing, in the Sunday Journal, 200000 beneficiaries expected from the universal youth guarantee with a remuneration of 500 euros per month, in fact 282 euros on average, your answer remains far below the needs of about 1.5 million young people in difficulty – according to the figures of the commission of inquiry and those of the Observatory of Inequalities. The Socialist and related group proposes, for its part, to create a minimum youth as there is a minimum old age, with an amount both familiar and not conditioned to job search procedures. We have also included our proposal for a law on the creation of individual support for solidarity emancipation on the agenda of our debates next February. With the device you recommend, the blur remains. So how will you guarantee the principle of universality to all the young people who need it, including the students, and allow them to get out of the precarious situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u117	[[Mr Pierre Cordier exclaimed]] The debate on the social incomes of young people aged 18 to 25 is entirely legitimate. Should we introduce a young RSA, a universal income of activity – RUA – young people? The young RSA would be to give an allowance to all young people and, year after year, we will try to accompany them in a professional career or to offer them a solution to get out of the RSA as soon as possible, because you will understand that a life at the RSA, especially if it starts at the age of 18, is not one they can wish. [[Mr Pierre Dharréville and Ms Sylvie Tolmont exclaimed]] If you look carefully at the philosophy of our proposals, we reverse that logic. We give the equivalent of the RSA and even a little more but correlating it to a solution – that is, if I dare say, cheese and dessert. With this monetary benefit, we give a solution, training, access to apprenticeship or alternation, access to second chance school for dropouts. They will be supported financially for this. That's what we dreamed of for years when we sat on the same benches, MP... We then launched the youth guarantee and this majority continues to deploy it. This is one of the solutions provided by plan 1 young, 1 solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u118	We must maintain the link with the job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u119	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] To commit billions to enable young people to find this solution in business, in training, in school and, in addition, to grant them vital monetary aid for them is, I believe, much more effective than the other way round. We are doing the same thing as you are advocating, but, I repeat, in a more effective way by reversing your logic. When you are 18 or 25, employment or training is not a soul supplement but the future, which we fund and accompany.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u120	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u121	I would like to pay tribute to your presence, Mr. Minister, even though the health crisis is taking hold of you. I find it remarkable that you are participating in this debate on poverty. It is true that 172 years after Victor Hugo's speech of 9 July 1849 on the destruction of poverty, we may have the impression that we have not made much progress, even though much progress has been made. While it is true that 10 million French people, it has been recalled, live below the poverty line, it must be pointed out that of these 10 million, one in three is a child. It is a tragedy because the future should belong to them. We must therefore do more and also ensure that the crisis we are experiencing is not just an misfortune, but also an opportunity to invent a new economic, social and environmental model. The question that the Group of the European People's Party wishes to ask the Government this evening is basically very simple: what is its position on the universal income that our group calls its wishes under the name "citizen base"? We must move forward today in identifying new solutions for a more just society. To this end, we propose new tools, such as the single CDI, which, together with the citizen base, will enable those who are deprived of it to return to work. What is the Government's position on these various proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u122	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u123	Thank you for your kind words, Mr. Becht! I am a minister responsible not only for health, but also for solidarity. It is therefore my role to be here tonight in the House. I've always said I want to hold it fully and I'm sticking to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u124	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u125	With regard to universal income, you propose, for its implementation, different modalities from those proposed by a former Member of Parliament who is a candidate for the presidential election. I described earlier the plan 1 young person, 1 solution to Mrs. Tolmont. We agree, I believe, on the logic and the objective: like you, we want to allow people to have an activity and live it. There is still a need to clarify the articulation between the various devices. In any case, correlating activity, inclusion and income training seems beneficial, while in our society it happens too often that someone is told: "I'm sorry, I have nothing to offer you, but we're going to write you a check. Then the person is too far away from the job and needs help to get out of misery by pulling it up. So far, we have quotaed the support and assistance measures for the French: they were insufficient in relation to the demand. Today, for the first time, we find ourselves in a completely different situation – the Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, Elizabeth Borne, would explain this much better than I do: we have as many solutions to propose that there are potential beneficiaries. The aim is therefore to encourage "go-to" approaches to identify potential beneficiaries and direct them towards measures adapted to their situation and financed over time. It must also be verified that these measures are being implemented. It's not easy, but together we can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u126	It looks a bit like a pious wish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u127	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u128	Poverty causes a combination of difficulties: I want to take advantage of this intervention to draw your attention to the issue of access to care. The report of the June 2019 interdepartmental mission on the effectiveness of public policies implemented in Roubaix, in my constituency, highlighted the existence of a very clear link between poverty and premature overmortality. The report refers to over-consumption of primary care, under-consumption of specialized care and reduced use of prevention. The provision of care is generally satisfactory in Roubaix, but it is the late recourse, the renunciation or the lack of perception of the need for care that would cause this incomplete access. According to the report, this situation is linked to the social characteristics of the population: isolation, financial insecurity, housing problems and a remote relationship to public services. These same elements were also identified this year as one of the leading causes of coronavirus contamination in the city, with rates reaching 1135 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. A large-scale screening campaign, in which I am involved, is taking place this week and we hope it will slow down the spread of the virus and identify potential carriers of the English variant. Mr Minister, the regionalization of our health system, as advocated by the IDU Group and independent, would make it possible to strengthen the effectiveness of our policies to combat poverty through the provision of care to our citizens as closely as possible. Regional health agencies – RHAs – and communities need to be able to encourage local initiatives, as health professionals are on the front line to identify and implement solutions that are tailored to the needs of residents. What does the Government intend to do to that end?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u130	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u131	If there is a mechanism that works well and that is praised by the French, it is that of universal health insurance, inherited from the National Council of Resistance, created after the Second World War and thanks to which every Frenchman contributes according to his means and receives according to his needs – it is the moment Ambrose Croizat, dear to our communist comrades! The universality of health policy and the management of risk by the State by means of policies deconcentrated in regional health agencies and public health policies partly decentralized and entrusted to local elected officials: these are the foundations of our health system, which works and of which we do not have to blush – the results of our health policy prove this! I refuse that the treatment of cancer will be treated differently tomorrow depending on whether we live in the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region or the Occitanie region. It is essential that we preserve the national unity which is the foundation of our system and which explains the French membership of the social contribution, to which you are undoubtedly, like me, very attached, Madam Member. I am not entirely sure I understood the meaning of your question and I apologize. The link between health and solidarity must be established because these two areas cover common issues, but I do not share your analysis of the regionalisation of anti-poverty policies. Once again, I invite you to meet with your regional commissioners for the fight against poverty. They are very committed, dedicated and motivated people who will be able to explain to you everything about the deconcentrated and decentralized policies put in place by the State and the means they implement to strengthen policies to combat poverty in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u132	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u133	It must be noted that the plan to combat poverty has failed. Between good intentions and deeds, the gap is great and poverty is widening in the country. Millions of people live with little, including too many young people and single parents. In addition, according to the Observatoire des Inequalités, the poverty rate is three times higher than in the rest of France. Of the 20 municipalities with 20,000 inhabitants with the highest poverty rate, nine are located in La Réunion. It's a sad record. But what are you doing, Mr. Minister? Another staggering indication is that the number of beneficiaries of social minima is exploding everywhere in France. But to be sure that the figures will not reveal your failure, in November 2019 you removed the National Observatory on Poverty and Social Exclusion – ONPES. The health crisis is not responsible for this situation, but it contributes to aggravation. Yet, there is nothing in the Government's policy that will enable the poorest to see their living conditions improve. Minister, have you considered revising your policy to abolish poverty in France? Would not the generalization throughout the territory of experimenting territories zero long-term unemployed be a solution to get people out of poverty? Why didn't you propose it during the vote on the operative part last December? Moreover, how can we not address the situation of the elderly, who are being abused by your policies and who are living on poor incomes? Are you in favour of a significant increase in all incomes, so that not one is below the poverty line? [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Finally, what do you think about the right to employment, i.e. the employer state as a last resort? It would bring thousands of people out of unemployment and thus out of poverty. Beyond direct aid to people, do you not think that such a measure would also contribute to the recovery of the economy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u135	The functioning of the labour market as it exists today has, of course, perverse effects and defects, it can also lead to impoverishment, but it is not the worst of the systems to enable everyone to flourish in their professional activity and support themselves through their work. I do not believe at all that 100 % of public employment is panacea or a realistic prospect for a state and its citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u136	It's a last resort, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u137	I don't know what "last resort" means, MP. If there are 3 million unemployed and there is a need to create 3 million public jobs, the promise has been made in the air since it is impossible to finance. Just look at the public accounts to convince yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u138	Let us have a place: we'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u139	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u140	With regard to the long-term unemployment zero-territories scheme, the experiment was unanimously adopted by Parliament a few weeks ago and will soon begin. I myself participated in the work carried out at the initiative of my former comrade, the Member of Parliament Laurent Grandguillaume. This device is very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u141	We had to expand it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u142	We'll follow him very closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u143	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u144	Mr President, it is twenty-two thirty hours: could we end this debate calmly? We can resume the discussion after if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u145	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u146	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The ONPES has not been abolished, but has been transferred to the National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion – CNLE – of which I am personally at the initiative and which is chaired by your colleague Fiona Lazaar. Ask her, she will tell you that this structure is very active and certainly more effective than the multitude of organizations that previously prevailed. The multiplicity of interlocutors does not in any way guarantee greater efficiency. ONPES has been transformed: as we say, nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u147	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What a mediocrity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u148	Please, Mr. Bernalicis! Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u149	Poverty has beautiful days ahead!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u150	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u151	It is not very original to point out that the health crisis has unfortunately contributed to a sharp increase in precariousness, which has already reached a particularly high level in the previous period. If it were well before the crisis, the rise in poverty inevitably worsens with the difficulties of the day. As has been said on several occasions, today millions of people live on less than 1000 euros a month, more than half of whom are under 30 years of age. It is not the Member of Parliament for Corsica that I am who could ignore the damage of social avanias: almost a fifth of the island's population lives below the poverty line. I particularly want to stress the worrying situation that so many young people are experiencing today. It is known that there are many reasons, starting with difficulties in training or integration into a depressed world of work. This economic disinherence, in addition to the damage and isolation it causes, creates the conditions for a catastrophic stall and carries the seeds of strong social tensions. In this context, it is a real Marshall plan that should be put in place. However, the Government has already announced the extension of the youth guarantee, as well as exceptional assistance to young people benefiting from LPAs and scholarship students. We can only welcome these measures, although they are still insufficient. The Liberties and Territories Group wants to ask you two questions, Minister. First, why does the Government persist in refusing to extend the RSA to 18-25 years? You have already answered in part on the subject. Then, are you prepared to consider other solutions, such as the introduction of a universal student allowance, whose funding arrangements would of course be discussed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u153	I have already answered the first question, but I have not specified the envelope that will be provided for the plan 1 young person, 1 solution. You mentioned the Marshall Plan: plan 1 young, one solution will benefit from €7 billion of funding, which is far from negligible, you will agree. No plan adopted in France for youth employment has ever been provided with such a budget. You can look for: 7 billion euros, it never happened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u154	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u155	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is precisely the subject, Mr. Member of Parliament! Or we simply share a finding, we leave good friends, you say that the Government does nothing, we say that we do everything, and that does not advance the schmilblick; or we see together that measures are proposed and we discuss together their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u156	One Frenchman in six is in poverty: do you understand that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u157	The budget of plan 1 young person, 1 solution has been released: 7 billion euros have been earmarked for this single scheme, which is absolutely new. The solutions, their philosophy, the actors who will make them live are identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u158	Ten million poor people, that's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u159	It is now necessary to clarify the way in which this plan operates, to improve it in the event of difficulties and to move forward collectively in the interests of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u160	Mr. Pradie, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u161	Seven billion euros for a plan for young people is a lot, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u162	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u163	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You know very well that such a plan is not the alpha and omega of solidarity policies. The family sector accounts for more than €40 billion in benefits paid each year. I say again: 7 billion for a plan for young people, this is the first time and it's a lot. In any case, it should not bother you. If, really, you are driven by the intentions you are displaying – and I believe you are sincere – you should recognize that this is a colossal effort of the state and seek to make it grow in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u164	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u165	In the sad record of poverty in France, the overseas countries occupy, and by far, the first places. This is reflected in the last report of the Observatoire des Inequalités last November. The Réunion, where a quarter of the population lives – or rather survives – with less than 900 euros per month, is ranked number one, while Martinique comes second, with a poverty rate of almost 19%. Already in July, by harmonizing the calculation of poverty rates for the first time, INSEE had published upbuilding results and showed that La Réunion had three times as many people living below the poverty line as mainland France. When we know that these data do not yet take into account the effects of the health crisis of the covid-19, nor the cost of living in the overseas countries, it is easy to imagine how alarming the situation is. Poverty is often passed on from generation to generation. It saves neither children nor young people hard hit by unemployment, and older people suffer terribly, especially when they are isolated. Mechanisms and cumulative barriers to poverty are known, as are mechanisms and measures to mitigate the effects of poverty. It is to be feared, however, that they will no longer be in the dimension of the crisis that exists and threatens so many families in the overseas territories, and that family solidarity, which is still so present, may run out of steam in the face of the magnitude of the difficulties. Already referred to as "out-of-standard", the situation in Réunion became perilous. That is why it is essential to resize public policies on education, employment, health and small pensions, and urgently to amplify the poverty plan and adapt it to this unprecedented crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why, in a more immediate and modest way, we call on the Government to select from among the territories zero long-term unemployed the candidacy of the commune of the Port which, of all the communes with more than 20,000 inhabitants in France, is the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u166	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u167	Madam Member, I welcome your support for the long-term zero-unemployed-territories scheme, and I welcome it. I said earlier that I had been very supportive of it, including before I was a minister. This experiment has been prolonged, extended, and I believe you have voted for it, as it has been unanimously approved. I have therefore chosen your candidacy for the commune of the Port: I will tell my colleagues Élisabeth Borne and Brigitte Klinkert, who are in charge of this matter, to see with them how to help you and how to provide support to the commune, in order to experiment, if necessary, this arrangement in this territory. I believe that it is one of the good ways of doing things, which are likely to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u168	You didn't generalize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u169	When we talk about experimenting with it, it means by definition that we are not going to generalize it from the outset, but that we are going to evaluate it first. Evaluating something is good! I admire people who have certainties before I start something. For my part, I am very much in favour of the long-term zero-unemployed territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u170	When it comes to provisions relating to terrorism, you do not experiment with them: you immediately generalize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, there are rules that apply to us. We listen to the speaker asking questions, then the minister answers and we listen to him. Secondly, political life will follow its course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u173	Instinctively, I believe that this mechanism will be functional and will bring much to our territories; That is why I am in favour of it. But I also think that before launching it everywhere, it is not completely delusional to experiment with it for some time in wider areas, to see if its effects are felt or not. If it works, good! It'll be time to generalize it. Once again, I note the candidacy of your commune of the Port and I promise you to relay it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u175	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u176	I would like to address the issue of accompaniment to those affected by the economic crisis, in particular by the associations of social utility that you mentioned earlier. The economic recession inevitably has an effect on the level of poverty in the country. While the Government's support measures should be welcomed, some populations and sectors of activity remain more vulnerable to the crisis and therefore more vulnerable to its consequences. I am thinking, in particular, of the self-employed, the students who have an extra job, the small traders, as well as of certain groups with specific social problems, in particular single-parent families and young people who are dropping out of school. While the Government's ambitions are real, I am concerned about the detection of fragile populations. Indeed, during the various periods of confinement that we have experienced, many associations, be they social, cultural or sporting, have been forced to cancel their demonstrations and their traditional fundraising or have seen their functioning disrupted and their financial resources diminished. Yet, while the social effects of the economic crisis are likely to worsen, I believe that we still need their increased vigilance. They contribute to the identification of populations in fragile situations. The house arrest of these audiences is not only the result of a lack of opportunities: it is also – we must not forget – the consequence of geographical and intellectual isolation or a lack of recognition that eventually root people in poverty. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is precisely these invisible processes and mental patterns on which our associations of social utility now operate. That is why we must ensure that they are preserved at best in this time. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know what the Government intends to do to support these associations, these associative structures essential to social cohesion. What are also the levers that you could use to ensure that local authorities are also involved in this effort?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u177	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u178	Thank you for highlighting the prominent role of associations in the fight against poverty. I said that earlier, and this has been recalled by other Members: it is true, I repeat, and I claim it, that we have provided them with unprecedented structural and organisational financial support by its scale – 100 million euros invested in a call for projects also aimed at modernising and digitising associations that wish to do so. In the area of food aid alone, an additional €94 million was provided to associations. I mentioned earlier the agreement given to the Restos du Coeur that the so-called "Coluche" measure, which raises the 75% defiscalisation ceiling to 1000 euros for donations to food aid associations, should be extended. In addition, in the framework of the France Recovery Plan, the support plan for the whole voluntary sector is added. You are asking me in particular about the budget advisory points – PCBs – that I had discovered during the preparatory work for the launch of the poverty reduction strategy. We wanted to decline them throughout the country because this scheme works: PCBs are very useful and valuable, and I can confirm to you tonight that 250 additional structures were labeled in 2020 – a labeling corresponds to 15,000 euros of support provided to each budget advisory point. The objective is therefore more than fulfilled and we will continue to do so. [[Ms. Stella Dupont and Mr. Brahim Hammouche applaud]] As for the role of local authorities, it is obviously fundamental to support associations, in particular to facilitate their daily existence, for example by providing them with premises, logistical support or financing, or by working in conjunction with the CCAA. We will continue to encourage them with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u179	Mrs. Florence Morlighem has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u180	In 2019 in France, according to INSEE, the poverty rate decreased by 0.3 percentage points to 14.5% of the population compared to 14.8% in 2018. Between 2018 and 2019, 210,000 people came out of what INSEE calls "monetary poverty". These figures show that the government's strategy to prevent and combat poverty, launched in 2018 and supported by our majority, is beginning to bear fruit. It is useful to remind our oppositions that, according to an INSEE study published last October, between 2008 and 2017, the chances of ending poverty had decreased. Poverty must not be a life sentence. The decrease in unemployment in 2019 compared to 2018 has enabled women and men living in poverty to exit, precisely thanks to the return to employment. That is why the policy to combat poverty is focused on that goal. The poverty rate indicator reflects only the totality of the Government's efforts to combat this scourge. Our majority is proud to have voted for measures that actually improve the daily lives of the most fragile people: the creation and sustainability of shelters for the homeless, the creation of complementary health care in solidarity at the end of 2019 and the progressive implementation of 100% health care by providing 100% optical, dental and auditory care. Our majority is proud to have voted for access for the most disadvantaged children to the 1 euro canteen, to a free breakfast at school; It is also proud to have allowed parents to have their children cared for in order to go to work without any expense, and to have supported increased access to the crèches of the most modest families. The establishment of the State maintenance service, which ensures that single-parent families receive their fair payment, is yet another example of the Government's concrete and daily struggle against poverty and its majority. The health crisis that we are going through is unprecedented and, unfortunately, the popular classes are the most affected...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u181	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u182	..., as I can see in the eleventh northern riding. [[Mr. President shuts down the speaker's microphone]] Can you, Minister, remind us of the planned emergency measures and confirm to us that the direction of the strategy...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u183	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u184	The INSEE report published three weeks or a month ago – I'm sorry, I'm getting a little lost in the dates right now – was back on the situation in 2019. This may seem completely out of step with the current situation related to the health crisis and its impact, but this report shows quite interestingly that in 2019, for the first time in a long time, the poverty curve had reversed: 200000 people had left in France. Again, this seems to be a departure from the current situation; It seems 20 years ago that the health crisis is having an impact on the standard of living of the French and on the number of poor or people in precarious or fragile situations in our country. If we continue to follow a rigorous approach to evaluation, we realize that what has worked well is the activity premium. It even worked very well. Its rise – remember, that was the measure that had been voted in the so-called "yellow vests" package – had allowed from 2019 to 200000 French people to get out of poverty. This shows, and you are right to point out in your question, that the link between access to employment and exiting poverty is real. I therefore believe that we must continue to do so. Let's talk about plan 1 young, 1 solution for young people, which I mentioned earlier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u185	You want to make the universal youth guarantee!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u186	... or of all the schemes which are considered by some to be gifts to companies but which actually enable them to enable them to retain their employees and to create jobs and jobs, this is where the source of wealth lies in our system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u188	We can decide to change the whole system: some countries have done so, their economies have not been better, people in poverty, and even less democracy. We therefore continue on this line and strengthen all social shock absorbers during this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u189	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u190	We had the opportunity to remind you this evening: in France, 8.3% of the population lives on 885 euros a month or less, 1.9 million households affect the RSA and, unfortunately, one in ten children grows up in a so-called poor family. In Béziers, the poverty rate is 35% and the median income is EUR 15680 per year; These poverty figures are far higher than those of our department and our region and even national figures. For decades now, the government's response has been to provide ever more financial aid, either directly or through associations mandated to do so. It must be noted that this policy has not borne fruit. Only education, training and economic recovery, if combined, will bring down these terrifying figures. In order to combat poverty, the municipality of Béziers proposes innovative measures: a kind of giving and giving benefit not only for the person receiving the aid but also for the city. For example, we condition the allocation of the highest financial aid – up to EUR 1000 – to a voluntary contribution from the beneficiary. The aided person therefore participates in certain works – for example painting, cleaning the public road or maintaining the green spaces – and all the people to whom we propose this mechanism are enthusiastic about the idea of benefiting from it and obviously very proud of their mission accomplished. Another example is that students receiving these voluntary grants must give some of their time as volunteers to associations. All of this is the subject of an agreement between the parties, and each of them is called upon to do so on the basis of its competence. In short, these are true answers, but they are complicated to implement because the rules that frame them are very rigid. Mr Minister, you said during the general discussion that the first way to combat poverty is employment. You're right. My question is simple: why not simplify these rules, in order to put the thousands of people who are suffering from poverty back on the road to employment much faster?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u191	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u192	I am not sure, honourable Member, what are the rules you want us to simplify to allow access to employment. What is certain is that we are putting the necessary resources to it: the State is investing a great deal in this direction, and local and regional authorities can do so as well. But one chooses not to impose on a particular family locally constraints that do not exist in the ordinary law, because who would determine its criteria and according to what? In the same way, I do not approve of the municipalities which have put in place social assistance policies which are conditioned by the behaviour of certain members of the family: I do not feel in solidarity with such schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u194	On the other hand, allowing people who are very far from it to integrate into employment, to start a first activity, sometimes to adopt a daily agenda that will speed up their day and help them achieve results, can be of real importance. I'm not sure I understand the meaning of your question, Member; I will therefore be in danger of providing a factual answer, let alone a legal or legal response. Nevertheless, know that we are truly committed to enabling everyone to find employment, training and thus to get out of poverty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the parliamentarians present, Mr President, for this debate which seemed interesting to me, to tell you that the door of my Ministry of Solidarity and Health is open to any contribution that will collectively reduce poverty, and to invite you one last time – it will be the third, but it is not too much – to contact your regional commissioners for the fight against poverty in your territories. They need you and you will see that you also need them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u195	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-12-O1127.u196	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Oaths of one judge and two alternate judges to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Debate on longer payment periods and measures to remedy them in times of crisis; Debate on the situation in EHPADs following the two containment periods of 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
