ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the deployment and effectiveness of aid granted in support of economic activity in the face of covid-19. This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear speakers from the groups, concluding with Ms Stella Dupont's speech. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u2	Mr President, the minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis that has been affecting Europe and the world for more than a year now has been and continues to be serious consequences for the economy as a result of administrative closures and a sharp slowdown in activity. In order to respond to the difficulties of enterprises, the Government has deployed 17 aid schemes, including partial activity, the Solidarity Fund, the EMPs (State-guaranteed loans), the carry-over of social contributions, more recently the taking over of fixed costs, plus aid to the clothing sector, announced today and to be paid from 25 May. At the end of March, these support measures amounted to EUR 206 billion, or 9% of GDP. The Government has demonstrated its ability to quickly adapt support tools to the needs of businesses. In the urgency and in the face of uncertainty, he was able to listen, as evidenced by the measure of support for indoor activities through the taking over of fixed costs, which I carried with you, Mr.Minister, through the concrete reports of the Maine-et-Loire. The history of the decrees and their very large numbers show how strong will, responsiveness are to adapt the measures to the difficulties of the sectors most affected by the crisis: hotels, restaurants, culture, sports halls, tourism, events, etc. In the face of this unprecedented crisis, the measures must be perfectly adapted to the needs, and this is the line you have been following for more than a year. Some difficulties, however, call for more appropriate arrangements than they exist, failing which there is a risk of the failure of previously prosperous and completely healthy enterprises. Subsidy measures were mainly targeted at companies seeing a decrease in their turnover through the granting of aid from the Solidarity Fund. The calculation of this decrease is based on a comparison of the current turnover with that of 2019. As a result, companies created in 2019 or those that have invested to develop their business often pass between netting or receive insufficient support in terms of their loss of profits. Transmissions and takeovers of undertakings may also be outside the existing arrangements, where they have necessitated the legal creation of a new company. I have met with this case on several occasions in my constituency – we have already discussed it, Minister Delegate. You mentioned here last night a forthcoming decree: can you enlighten us on the framework and criteria defined by this decree? Moreover, the situation of the clothing trade calls for a better calibration of our aid schemes. Again, you recently announced a flat-rate stock support measure that will provide effective and responsive support to small businesses and very large businesses, which generate more than one million sales per month. But between 30000, 50000, 100000 euros and a million sales per month, there is a margin, which includes independent shops, structuring for our city centres. These businesses are in trouble. They sometimes have stocks of unsold for 100,000, 150000, 200000 euros that depreciate each day. These stocks seriously undermine the profitability of these businesses. Their situation needs to be analysed finely and aid more adapted to their specific characteristics must be implemented, if we are to avoid the failure of companies that will weaken our city cores, which we are trying to strengthen. It is a spirit of support, accompaniment and listening that led to the very reactive implementation of these aids, which is widely welcomed by the economic actors on the ground. I would therefore not like my remarks to be taken into account but these few necessary adjustments. I am sure that you will be able to clarify this point. The recovery of economic activity is now, fortunately, posing the question of the end of exceptional support for enterprises, to which we must prepare. The removal of these devices must be the subject of collective reflection, together with the actors concerned, on the model of what you have done so far and in the image of what the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has already undertaken for the partial activity. A gradual reduction in exceptional business support must be anticipated in order to enable the whole of our economic fabric to emerge sufficiently solidly from this pandemic to ensure the development of activity and employment throughout the national territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know, Minister Delegate, that you are working in this direction: you can count on the deputies of the Republic on their way to work with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u3	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u4	Mr Deputy Minister, last September you presented a €100 billion recovery plan to prevent the health crisis from leading to a total collapse of our economy. All the aid has been appreciated by the economic forces of our country and the many programmes put in place have kept our economy afloat. There are, however, two major topics: industry and local shops and restaurants. I'll start with the industry. By allocating €35 billion to industry, the recovery plan focuses on a sector that is struggling to be competitive in France. In the additional billion euros released last March, 600 million euros of tax credits are intended to encourage industrial companies to invest in digital technologies, 150 million euros to allow them to expand their factories and 250 million euros to relocate their establishments to France. This renewed aid to the industrial sector can only be welcomed and encouraged, but while one of the objectives of the recovery plan is to prepare our country for the challenges of the coming decades, it must be noted that there are many obstacles to our industrial fabric. In this regard, Mr.Minister Delegate, why is job creation the first criterion for obtaining such aid? What about the smallest companies, often innovative and located in our rural areas? What about the sustainability of employment in certain sectors of activity or geographical areas? Our trade deficit is huge – our exports have fallen by 82 billion euros! – our record debt, our unemployment rate does not fall and our industry is in disrepair. This has been so pointed out that we no longer have an industrial strategy. It took a global pandemic and successive confinements to make us aware of our huge dependence on imports. We no longer control our supply chains, which is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u5	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u6	To reindustrialize France is good; It's better to afford it. We will not reinvent France without upgrading technical and technological training and rehabilitating the scientific fields. We will not reindustrialize France without high technical, technological and perfectly bilingual engineers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u8	If only one figure were to be retained, this would be the case: there are 34% of industrial technology doctors in Germany, compared with 6% in France. Yes, we were a country of engineers, but that's the past. Recovery plan, of course, but to whose benefit? It is very good to support business investment to reindustrialize France, but in reality this investment often goes to Germany, Spain and Italy, because France no longer produces industrial machines. The aid for clothing and footwear stocks, which my colleague has just mentioned, is highly appreciated, but we regret a difference in treatment between businesses: is it fair, for example, to pay 10000 euros a month to a bar that has only 3000 euros of monthly charges? Many companies in my constituency that do not benefit from this aid – while they also suffer from the crisis, which has led to a drop in turnover of up to 30% – find this situation very unfair. They do not understand why all aid, from all sectors, is not indexed to the net result rather than to the firm's fixed costs. This injustice causes tensions in the economic world, weakens cohesion, solidarity and inter-professional relations in our territories. This will inevitably have consequences, and we all regret it. I would also like to warn you, Minister Delegate, of a serious malfunction affecting the payment of learning aids by the service and payment agency – ASP. Many delays are to be deplored, which once again weaken the most fragile companies, putting them in financial difficulty while virtually all sectors are already experiencing declines in turnover. Last but not least – I think you're aware of this – our company managers have had a very bad experience of putting the CERFA document (the registration and revision centre for administrative forms) on-line this Monday, which is necessary for the preparation of the files. You will easily understand that a businessman, if he wants to be productive, has no time to lose with administrative malfunctions. If we want to reindustrialise France, let us start by reducing red tape and simply bring our normative system in line with European standards. Let's trust our youth, let's give them the keys to excellence training. Let us trust our entrepreneurs, our merchants, our artisans, by focusing on advice rather than control and repression. France is a very beautiful country, a country of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u10	Let us trust them, knowing that we have an innovative and dynamic vision for our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u11	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u12	When we assess the effects of the economic aid mobilised to deal with the crisis of the covid-19, it is clear that the self-employed are highly exposed to the economic risks generated by this epidemic. This applies to a large number of sectors, ranging from hotels to restaurants and local shops, which have had to stop their activities in order to stem the spread of the virus. A large number of parliamentarians have been asked by citizens who face economic difficulties. I am all the more grateful for the opportunity this evening to address the issue of economic support measures in the face of covid-19. Our exchanges are part of a work of parliamentary scrutiny. In this capacity, our colleague Jean-Noël Barrot has since January carried out a mission to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery on the economic rebound in our territories. As part of this mission, he will visit Pas-de-Calais on Friday in order to meet the actors on the ground. In this context, I would like first of all to welcome the historic commitment of the State. It has been able to mitigate the potentially adverse economic effects of the crisis. The Solidarity Fund and State-guaranteed loans make a major contribution to this. I also welcome the measures that the Government has announced in recent days: the solidarity fund will be fully maintained for the month of May, the conditions for eligibility will be relaxed as early as June, or as early as 25 May, a specific aid will be paid to support, as my colleague Stella Dupont has just pointed out, traders affected by the problem of seasonal stocks. In order to manage the crisis well, I would nevertheless like to raise some questions. Uncertainties about eligibility criteria for the Solidarity Fund have raised deep concerns among the self-employed about the sustainability of their economic activity, which is due to delays in the allocation of aid and a lack of adequacy of several schemes to their situation. These are, first, unemployment benefit schemes. While part-time unemployment, the solidarity fund and State-guaranteed loans cover most of the current costs for the self-employed, the latter often have their income severely reduced. The crisis invites us to consider mechanisms that could allow us to compensate for these loss of income. Secondly, there is the problem of the inadequacy of the NAF code, or French activity nomenclature, for establishments with mixed activities, which are often denied access to the solidarity fund when they remain partially open, as is the case, for example, for tobacco bars. These uncertainties do not represent fertile ground for the recovery of our economy. Recovery depends not only on public investment, but also on the entrepreneurial spirit of initiative and innovation, which needs stability and predictability. The reduction in aid will therefore have to be done in a degressive manner, depending on the speed of economic recovery. In order to optimise the effects of this extension of aid, it should be adapted to the situation in the sectors most affected, e.g. tourism or events. As a result of the complete cessation of their activities and the necessary maintenance of certain health measures, these sectors will take time to return to a level of activity equivalent to the pre-crisis level. It is therefore necessary to put in place specific and specific measures for each sector, so that the gradual reduction of aid can take place according to the needs of the self-employed. This is a point of vigilance to be kept in mind at the time of the reassessment of the solidarity fund, which will take place in June for open or partially open companies. As far as the repayment of State-guaranteed loans is concerned, we must avoid it at the expense of recovery. The debt contracted during the crisis must not prevent the self-employed and SMEs from returning to their activities in order to participate fully in the economic life of our country. It is therefore desirable to extend the duration of State-guaranteed loans, in coordination with the European Commission. For the time being, the measures announced would tend to delay the start of the repayment of loans by one year without extending their duration. In the face of these uncertainties over the repayment schedule, several independents are asking for more time to choose how to amortise the loans. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The state's economic support for the self-employed has been a testament to the government's commitment to protecting the integrity of our economic fabric for more than a year. In the run-up to the crisis, we must take the right steps to ensure that recovery is an opportunity for all, including those sectors hardest hit by the crisis, such as the tertiary sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u13	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u14	On 16 March 2020, France made a leap into the unknown and entered a period of deep uncertainty due to the health crisis which, almost a year later, still hit our country. We had to urgently support all parts of our economy. This support was and remains indispensable. The State has shown its importance in economic matters, while, a short time ago, many, including those who are satisfied today with its action, wanted to see it receded. It is the famous "whatever it costs" that we are kind of called upon to evaluate today. A choice was made: direct support not to households, but to businesses, in order to avoid their failures, which were contained in 2020, which is to credit support measures. However, the figure of 284,000 net job losses in 2020, according to INSEE, is to be examined carefully, as persons in partial or technical unemployment are still considered to be employed. In addition, INSEE estimates that there is a risk of 77,000 additional job losses in the first quarter of 2021. Indeed, since emergency measures are of a permanent nature – made necessary by the sluggishness of this health crisis – it is feared that the sectors affected will reduce their labour force in a sustainable manner by reducing the use of partial unemployment, particularly in housing, catering and household services. While job losses seem to have been relatively contained for the time being, the other indicators are more worrying. Thus, the reduction in the margin rate of enterprises is greater than that of our German, Italian and British neighbours. In 2020, the net debt ratio of non-financial corporations rose higher than that of our European neighbours. Finally, while the aid measures have enabled the economic fabric to hold the shock, the Monitoring Committee considers that France's performance is "poor" in terms of the current account. This is a recurring problem, to which future aid and recovery measures will have to address. I am thinking in particular of the tourism sector, which is heavily affected by the health crisis and so important for the economic vitality of our country – as I know well – to be elected from a mountain area where tourism plays a vital role in economic and social matters. The effort has been significant but, despite the multiple devices, many entrepreneurs who do not enter the grid do not manage to meet the conditions imposed to benefit from these devices, which do not always stick to the realities of the field. The aid schemes introduced for more than a year have evolved considerably in response to the difficulties encountered by the various economic sectors. It took a lot of reactivity on the part of all the actors. Every time we found out that he had holes in the racket, we reported it and, if you have adapted certain measures, today there are still gaps, forgotten devices, for which it is imperative to find solutions. In my constituency, I am alerted every week about special cases that I tirelessly raise. I could give you the name of each and every one of them, and describe precisely their situation. These are courageous traders who took over several shops in the 2019-2020 season and who have to fight for the specificity of their situation to be taken into account in the absence of a balance sheet in 2019, the reference year; traders to whom aid was granted and who, after publication of the second decree which brings the calculation back to 2019 turnover, are no longer eligible; newly installed restaurateurs, still in stations, who have tried to adapt throughout the winter by proposing innovative solutions which, however, have not enabled them to secure sufficient income, and which also remain without aid; holiday centres which operate in particular in the municipality and which have not been able to benefit from partial unemployment; others whose lack of visibility for a reopening raises concerns about closure; ski instructors that delays in payment make it difficult; Liberal mountain professionals who have still not received the amounts of aid to which they are entitled, because, injured, pregnant or arrested women due to illness during 2019, the reference year, they cannot benefit from the same aid; Others, which had paused their activities for various reasons and resumed their activities in 2020, and which cannot justify turnover in 2019, are therefore not receiving aid. These are very specific examples, Mr. Deputy Minister, for which I am asking you for specific answers, particularly with regard to the broom order on fixed costs, which should take into account various situations. I'm counting on you and they're counting on you to get them out of their troubles and avoid them depositing balance sheets. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our Socialist and related group will remain vigilant so that the aid provided will enable everyone to survive this crisis and prepare for the recovery which, we hope, will be vigorous and just socially and fiscally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u15	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u16	I, in turn, and following the remarks made earlier by my colleague Benoit Potterie, would like to welcome the Government's efforts in economic matters since the beginning of the crisis. For more than a year, the covid-19 epidemic has put the world economy under an unprecedented test. While some sectors have been forced to discontinue their activities for a period of time or to be particularly affected, the Government has been able to provide practical responses with great reactivity. The key mechanisms that have been in place for the past year have gradually been enriched, better adapted to the realities of the field, thanks to the efficiency of the State services and listening to the Government. Social partners, representatives of various professional federations, local elected representatives and parliamentarians: I think I can say that the dialogue constantly maintained by Bercy has borne fruit to remove the holes in the racket at best. Of course, some improvements are still possible, as Benoît Potterie recalled earlier, but I like him for the robustness of the system put in place. We are proud to have been able to contribute to the co-construction of these mechanisms to support economic activity. I am thinking, for example, of the best consideration given to the newly created companies, for which our group has argued a great deal, as well as the important contribution of the insurers to the national effort, which I had requested from the beginning of the crisis in March 2020, and which has been followed up with effect at the cost of many negotiations led by the Government. Our Working Together Group will continue, in the general interest, to make its full contribution in a constructive way, in order to best support the economic actors. As the containment begins, the exit of the aids is a crucial issue, which will have to be managed with great precision, in order to allow a smooth transition. Our group welcomes the Minister of Economy's announcements on the solidarity fund. This will be maintained in May, and companies will be entitled to the full mechanism this month, before a change in the scheme in June. During the summer, the degressivity of the aid will be accompanied by the abolition of the threshold for loss of turnover. Combined with the clear timetable for reopening set out by the President of the Republic last week, this system will enable aid to be phased out, giving visibility to economic actors. However, we hear the fears of some professionals about the practical arrangements for exiting aid. I am thinking in particular of the merchants, hoteliers or restaurateurs of Île-de-France, who anticipate a very difficult summer, while international tourists will not come back massively. In this respect, I have proposed the establishment of a single area in Paris for the Sunday opening of shops, which could be done on the basis of the voluntary work of businesses and employees. This would make it possible to boost economic activity, support our traders and increase the purchasing power of employees while allowing better management of flows in shops. In any event, the withdrawal of aid should be as far as possible on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the specific nature of each sector in each territory. We know the Government at work, in constant contact with economic actors and local actors. One of the major challenges for which we will have to bring concrete solutions to businesses is their debt. On the one hand, the crisis has led households to over-save. The savings surplus will thus reach almost 160 billion euros at the end of the year and the disbursement of part of this precautionary savings will be the key to a vigorous recovery. On the other hand, companies have increased their debt, in particular to build up a cash back mattress. Overindebtedness would weaken the banking system and undermine investment. The Government has taken stock of this issue, particularly with the launch this month of participatory loans, which we support. [[Applause on the banks of theAgirens group, some of the banks of the LaREM,DemetUDI-I groups]] Aware of all these challenges and fully supporting the Government in its policy of supporting economic actors – hailed all over the world, should we recall that? –, our group Agir ensemble is convinced that the French economy has strong assets to bounce back and emerge stronger from this crisis. We wish to do so by also ensuring social cohesion in our country, by supporting employees and the most vulnerable and vulnerable people: it is the economy and social together, and that is how we will emerge from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u17	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u18	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and its President Olivier Becht for organizing this debate. Since the first day of the crisis, we have made the choice to protect TPEs and SMEs. We will continue to defend this choice as long as the health situation leads us to take measures to restrict business activity. The "no matter what" strategy has enabled our economy to resist. It will allow our economy to bounce back. The first quarter of 2021 showed this, with an increase of 0.4%. Since the beginning of the crisis, speed and adaptability have been the key words of our action. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the parliamentarians for their positive support for the Government's work. The objective we have set ourselves with Bruno Lemaire for several months has not changed: any healthy business before the crisis must, thanks to the support of the state, be ready at the time of recovery. We are not yet at the end of the road, but I can assure you that the Government will be here to assist companies, including during the recovery period. Since October, in the face of the deterioration of the health situation in France, the Government has continuously adapted to respond to the situation of enterprises. Thanks to a constant mobilization, which Mr. Potterie pointed out, we were able to identify the gaps – these famous "holes in the snowshoe" – and fill a large part of them. As I have said on several occasions, I hope that the tennis racket will only be a ping-pong racket in a few days, and that we will have responded to all the concerns of the entrepreneurs. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] Since the beginning of the year, we have been covering fixed costs not covered by companies with more than EUR 1 million in turnover, or with high fixed charges, such as indoor sports and leisure halls, water and thermalism. This afternoon, I received representatives from the discotheques and told them that they would now be eligible for this scheme. Shops in the clothing, footwear, leather goods and sports sectors will benefit from flat-rate aid to offset part of the depreciation of their stocks. This aid will be paid by the end of May and will correspond to 80% of the aid received under the Solidarity Fund for the month of November. There will be no need for further action on the part of companies. I commend the work of MP Stella Dupont on this subject and assure her of my regular exchanges with the National Clothing Federation (FNH). [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Multi-service businesses, which are not eligible for the Solidarity Fund because they do not lose 50% of their turnover, will benefit from aid to cover part of their fixed costs. The decree enabling this measure to be implemented will come out in the next few days. Finally, companies that have purchased a commercial fund and have been administratively closed will also benefit from compensation for their fixed costs – again, the decree will be published shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the state has met the needs of businesses by introducing simple access mechanisms that, for many, have primarily benefited smaller businesses. For example, 93% of the 700000 enterprises benefiting from EMPs are SMEs, and more than 95% of the 2 million beneficiaries of the Solidarity Fund are EMPs and SMEs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Another example of our responsiveness: nearly 400,000 companies have received the solidarity fund for March since the opening of the window on April 20th. This corresponds to the payment of almost 2 billion euros in less than two weeks. I would also like to pay tribute to the work of the agents of the central administration, as in the territories, the agents of the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Directorate-General for Enterprise, for the day-to-day work they carry out. Benoît Coeuré's report confirms the very favourable appreciation of entrepreneurs for the economic action of the Government during this crisis. One consequence, particularly visible, is concretely measured: in 2020 we saw a significant decrease in the number of business failures, which continues in the first quarter of 2021. However, when the business resumes, I will remain vigilant about the solvency of the companies and the repayment of their loans, because many of them fear that they will not be able to assume their debts. While the President of the Republic has indicated a timetable for reopening, I hear the concern of certain sectors, which will not resume normal activity as soon as the health restrictions are lifted: I am thinking in particular of the event industry, discotheques or restaurants and hotels dependent on international tourism, particularly in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u22	I confirm that the Government will be at the side of each of these sectors: like Bruno The Mayor has announced, we will extend the solidarity fund in its current form for the month of May. Then we will adapt it to accompany the resumption of activity: it will then partially compensate the sales losses, even when they are less than 50%. This will both encourage the reopening of companies that can only do so by respecting a binding gauge, and support them in their recovery. With regard to contribution exemptions, we are maintaining the current scheme in May. This mechanism will also be maintained as much as necessary for companies subject to administrative closure. Starting in June, the scheme will also evolve to better adapt to a context of recovery. Finally, the scheme of partial activity, more adapted to a period of crisis than to a period of recovery, will be adapted to take account of the gradual resumption of activity. Throughout this week, together with my colleagues Bruno Le Maire, Élisabeth Borne and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, we are conducting consultations with all the professionals affected by the crisis, in particular with a view to addressing the protocols for reopening in stages and the aid that will result. At the end of the consultations, we will specify in the next few days the parameters envisaged for the evolution of the various arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that to date, despite health restrictions, almost 90% of the economy is functioning normally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u24	Our primary objective now is to support the remaining 10% of companies, as we have done since the crisis began. Finally, beyond accompanying the resumption of activity, we must speed up the roll-out of the recovery plan to ensure a solid and sustainable recovery of our economy. Our aim is to return quickly to the pre-crisis economic situation, when our country was once again one of the most attractive in Europe and our companies were experiencing a great dynamic of growth and job creation. To achieve this goal, the Government announced on 3 September a €100 billion recovery plan focusing on three priorities: ecology through green recovery, competitiveness through the revival of our economic sovereignty and technological independence, and cohesion through social and territorial recovery. This recovery plan is spreading rapidly: EUR 30 billion have already been disbursed. The President of the Republic also mentioned a second step in the recovery, a time of simplification and acceleration of investments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT groups]] The success of economic recovery will depend on the mobilization of all: Government, elected officials, businesses. Everyone's mobilization was decisive when emergency measures were put in place, and it will be more so in the coming months to secure the revival of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u25	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u26	On 9 February, almost three months ago, I interviewed the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery during the question-and-answer session to the Government about multi-activity and what some would call a hole in the solidarity fund's racket. I spoke in the Chamber about the situation of Maud and Benoît and their inn farm in the Cher. Many find themselves in this way, forgotten by national solidarity and victims of a turnover-based approach to compensation, and thus so far fail to take into account the situation of multi-activity. Often, one of the activities, which is open, generates too much turnover so that those concerned can claim from the solidarity fund, but very few results, while the activity that generated the margin was closed administratively, strangling the companies and their managers. Farms-inns, bars-tobacco, grocery shops-bars, car garages also selling fuel, all of which have at least two common features: being located in rural areas and being FTEs. There is an urgent need: for months they have not received any help, they have been left on the edge of the road. What mechanisms could be put in place to ensure that these activities, which deserve it, can benefit from national solidarity, and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u28	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u29	You're talking about a subject that I care about and that I've been working with my teams and Bruno Le Maire for several weeks already. Multi-service enterprises, particularly in rural areas, play a particularly important local economic and social role. However, you are right, the solidarity fund was built on the assumption that only a turnover loss of at least 50% of an activity with APE code – the main activity carried out – could make eligible for the fund: therefore, multi-service companies are among the forgotten ones I mentioned earlier. In fact, the mechanisms introduced have been designed to deal with cases in large numbers, in a quasi-industrial way, and to ensure speed and efficiency. However, we did not have the criteria or the possibility to deal directly and quickly with the case of multi-service enterprises, which in many cases did not regret a turnover loss of more than 50% due to multi-activity and thus did not meet the traditional criterion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Activité ens and IDU-I groups]] We have worked hard and examined many possible solutions. I understand that this period may seem long, especially for those who are waiting, you recalled, but we have now found a mechanism to reward them for their patience and to respond – at least I hope – to their needs and to the proposals of parliamentarians. This mechanism will be managed not at the national level, but at the departmental level. Aid of up to EUR 5000 will help to support multi-activity enterprises, with retroactivity in January, in order to enable them to continue to play a vital role in our territories. I thank the parliamentarians who, on several occasions, have insisted on this subject, and assure them that the Government has been responsive to their requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u30	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u31	My question concerns the situation of certain integration associations – I do not think it is necessary to recall the part that these associations have taken in the health crisis. To illustrate my point, I will take the example of an association in my constituency, the association Pluri'Elles, which does a remarkable job and allows many people – mainly women – to reintegrate by making professional clothes, especially for hoteliers and coffee makers. This association was hit hard by the crisis. However, at the height of this crisis, the prefect of the Belfort territory asked her to manufacture coats and other sanitary clothing that could be used in EHPADs and nursing homes. The association readily accepted its request, at very low costs. Women and men worked every day in extraordinary conditions: we were at the heart of the crisis, there were very few protections, and so they were on the front line. At the end of the year, however, at the time of taking stock, the association was in deficit of 38,000 euros. She asked for assistance from the Solidarity Fund, but she was told that she was not eligible, since she had maintained more than 50% of her activity. The situation is thus as follows: people have worked, as they always do, in the service of the community; I repeat, they have worked on a daily basis and on the front lines. And while they only need 38,000 euros, no one can give them! My question is therefore simple: while the President of the Republic often advocates "whatever it costs", is the Government ready to make a concrete gesture and to pay 38,000 euros – it is the price of "whatever it costs" in this particular case – to enable an association that has been working for the integration of women for years to survive, and thus recognize the excellent work that it has done in the heart of the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u32	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u33	It's a school case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u34	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u35	First of all, I would like to reaffirm the determination of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to take into account the tremendous work carried out on the ground by these associations, as confirmed by the appointment of Olivia Grégoire to the post of Secretary of State for the social economy, solidarity and responsibility, which perfectly accompanies these companies. You are referring to a particular case, allow me to detail precisely what has been done for the Pluri'Elles association. I begin by welcoming the commitment of this association, which is recognised both for the quality of the public service provided to people furthest from employment, whose reintegration into employment it promotes, and for its mobilization during the crisis, which you mentioned; She has made masks and overblouses for health workers. The structure of integration through economic activity Pluri'Elles had to recruit staff to participate in this effort, while many structures closed or put their employees into partial unemployment. These hirings were financially accompanied and contracted by the State. For the year 2020, it has thus released exceptional financial consolidation aid amounting to more than EUR 19,000. In addition, the association responded to a call for regional projects to ensure its development, consisting of modernizing its sewing workshop in order to meet regional and national private orders. The project was accepted by the State, amounting to 18,000 euros, plus 9,000 euros in equity. In addition to the EUR 288000 it received in support of the insertion post, the structure also received more than EUR 37,000 to cover losses in 2020, while giving itself the means to respond to calls for tenders. It will soon receive additional funding of more than EUR 11000 for 2020, linked to the quality of the efforts made in terms of the types of audiences accompanied, integration and exit to employment and training. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Be assured, Mr.Elles, that the state services on the territory of Belfort are fully mobilized to help the already well-known and locally recognized Pluri'Elles association. I hereby confirm that, for the year 2021, the association will be able to receive, in the amount of several thousand euros, exceptional assistance for the consolidation of the structures. The State thus holds its share of commitment in the financial accompaniment of this structure which deserves it well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u36	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u37	I will also ask you, Minister Delegate, about the multi-service businesses that provide grocery, coffee, restaurant, bakery, tobacco, parcel reception and newspaper sales. We discussed this subject at our meeting in Bercy on 26 January and then agreed that the 50% revenue loss threshold was irrelevant. I will cite only one example, that of a company I know well, which is both a bar and a grocery store, and which employs employees. The bar is closed, while it is this activity that brings the greatest share of the profit. Without declining turnover, the profitability of the company is not at all the same as before. When we saw each other, Minister Delegate, we had discussed at length the specificity of these businesses, some of which are closed while others remain open, and the question of their profitability. Since then, I have written almost every month to your Parliamentary Counsel to ask him for the date of publication of the Order in Council. You told us that this date was close; Can you tell us more and clarify how you intend to help these multi-service businesses? I know that you are particularly interested in this subject and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u39	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u40	First of all, Mr President, I would like to associate you with the thanks I made earlier, because you were one of those who asked me about the subject. In accordance with the way I am trying to perform my function, I very quickly invited you to Bercy with some of your colleagues, so that we could analyse the situation together and build the best possible model. I immediately told you of my determination to find a solution, which turned out to be more complex than I had imagined. It took us a little time to find the right solution, not only to determine which companies were eligible for the scheme, but also to implement the payment of the aid which had been decided at the operational level. The whole arrangement has now been stalled, along with other ministers whom I associate with this success: Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for the Cohesion of Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, and Géralld Darmanin, Minister of the Interior. I hope that the decree will be published next week and that, almost immediately, the State services will then be able to study the cases in partnership with local associations designated for this purpose, so that an aid scheme will be set up, the amount of which, limited to 5000 euros, will be decided at local level. Retroactive from January 2020, this aid will respond – I hope – to the needs of multi-service businesses. They are essential for the services they provide to the population, both economically and socially. I would like to reiterate my thanks to the parliamentarians who have asked us on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u41	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u42	Together with my colleagues Sébastien Jumel and Jean-Paul Lecoq, whom I associate with my question, we take advantage of this debate to address urgently a burning issue: the situation of the Manoir Industries Group in Pîtres and its ACPP subsidiary near Cherbourg. If the group is now in the process of legal reform, this is not due to a lack of know-how, since the contractors of the petrochemical, energy, railway or shipbuilding sectors are quite satisfied with the quality of the steels produced, nor with a lack of prospects, since the order book is filled. This is simply a cash flow problem that is not insurmountable, provided that we consider the stakes of the industrial jobs of the group and its industry and the industrial sovereignty of our country. This is indeed, as you understand it, a strategic path. What we are asking you is to guide the commitment of public funds to support this company and its industry. In particular, we call for the organisation of two urgent round tables in Pîtres and Cherbourg, so that all the public actors concerned and the major providers of orders – of which the State often has the keys – can help to implement an investment in employment, know-how and the working tool. We also hope that partial, often fragile, resumptions will be avoided. Deputy Minister, can you send our request for two round tables to your services as a matter of urgency? There is a question of employment to which it is urgent to answer, for our country and for Normandy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u44	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u45	As you noted, this business is not one of those that I am in the department that I am in charge of today. On behalf of Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher, who follows these companies, I will nevertheless answer you. This subsidiary of the Manoir Industries Group now employs 223 employees, as far as I know. It has recognized expertise in the field of nuclear boilermaking for strategic customers such as Orano, the Office of the Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy Commissioner – CEA – or Naval Group. Like the Manoir Industries Group, this subsidiary is the victim of a lack of investment that follows the difficulties encountered by various shareholders in the group, who are now failing. From the very beginning, in August 2020, Bruno Le Maire decided to intervene by financing the search for credible buyers, entity by entity, through a direct loan from the State to the group of EUR 15 million. Thanks to this intervention, a judicial liquidation of the entire group, including the cauldronry pole with ACPP and CTI-ACDN in the Manche, the forge pole of Bouzonville – a dossier followed by MP Hélène Zannier – and the site of Pîtres, was just avoided. The department's services also mobilized various clients of the group, in particular Orano, who very quickly supported the ACPP company by confirming several contracts in the order book and soliciting several of its partners to seek a recovery solution. Many brands of interest have been expressed and three French industrial projects are now in competition. The court will be able to examine on 11 May at least two permanent offers to maintain the activity and know-how of the ACPP company in the territory. Of course, we measure the fears and legitimate expectations of the employees of the various sites, whose situation is suspended from the hope that future industrial buyers will give their site a sustainable future. The State has used all the levers to offer the best opportunities for sustainable industrial recovery projects and to define the best possible support for employees who would not be taken over. The Government also spends half a billion euros on the nuclear sector as part of the France Recovery plan, proof that France intends to assert its position as a leader in the world and that this energy will occupy a strategic place in our energy mix. The minister wishes to reiterate to Sébastien Jumel and to yourself, Mr. MP, his total mobilization on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u46	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u47	Before the crisis, Salesian economic activity was working well. Of course, the covid-19 put a brutal brake on a situation envied in many other departments. Fortunately, the aid provided by the Government has been numerous and effective! More than 17,000 companies were able to benefit from it, for a total amount of 118 million euros. The partial activity concerned more than 80000 employees. These support and accompanying measures have played a key role in maintaining the economic activity of the department and my constituency, regardless of the sector of activity concerned. I have visited – and continue to visit – many companies of all sizes in which order books are full and development prospects, supported by the France Recovery plan, are promising, but where unfortunately recruitment problems are still a reality. However, I would like – and this is the subject of my speech – to refer in particular to the tourism sector, which is the capital of my coastal constituency from the Île de Noirmoutier to the Sables-d'Olonne. Last year, companies in the sector limited the break, with overall sales falling between 15% and 20% compared to the previous year. This year, despite the announcement of reopening, the recovery is expected to be more complicated. Two major problems are identified. The first is the recruitment of seasonal workers. Despite the latest announcements by Élisabeth Borne and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, companies still have a hard time finding a workforce. Up to now, it has preferred to focus on sectors of activity such as large-scale distribution in which, even if the health situation deteriorated, employment would most likely be maintained, if not guaranteed. The second problem concerns the future rules of reopening with gauges of the coffee, hotels and restaurants sector, each of which understands that they are obviously correlated with the health situation. Such conditions will not allow the minimum profitability thresholds to be reached: the maintenance of aid will therefore be necessary in order to make it possible to pass the course and to accompany the return to normal life. That is why I call your attention, Minister Delegate, to these extremely important points, in direct contact with the ground, so that we can act as effectively as possible in favour of those businesses which are the beating heart of our territories. Finally, I cannot conclude my remarks without referring to a situation which you mentioned earlier: that of discotheques, which will remain closed at least until 30 June and which, for the moment, have no prospect beyond that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u48	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u49	You are asking me about matters of great concern to me. The department in which your constituency, Vendée, is located traditionally has a relatively low unemployment rate compared to other departments – a rate that my region of origin desires. In the last few weeks, as we speak of recovery, the sectors that have been affected in recent months – events, tourism, cafes, hotels and restaurants – alert us to their deep fears that they will not be able to resume an activity when the time comes, failing to find the competent and necessary staff. This is a real concern that I remember was already expressed in February 2020 by many employers' organisations. A particular feature of our country is the inadequacy of the recruitment needs of companies and the skills of many job seekers. Élisabeth Borne asked Pôle Emploi to take decisive action for those seeking employment to direct them to the companies you mentioned and to train them, thanks to very powerful tools. I very sincerely hope that this action will have results. As for the discotheques, I told their representatives that I met this afternoon that we were committed to giving them a possible reopening date on 15 June, subject of course to changes in the health situation. We will continue to work with them and to accompany them because we know how much this 14-month closure weighs on these 1600 companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u50	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u51	Support for businesses in our country is unprecedented. As a Parisian elected representative, I was able to see how much the recovery plan had helped entrepreneurs significantly to cope with the health crisis. In Paris, more than 55000 PGEs were signed for an outstanding amount of 18.6 billion euros; EUR 3.1 billion has been committed by the State for partial unemployment since March 2020; EUR 1.4 billion of aid has been provided under the Solidarity Fund to 142516 companies. These numbers, I want to hear them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u52	Yes, for the regionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u53	However, despite these massive aids, thousands of companies in my constituency remain fragile. Let us first mention the hotels which, like the Westin in the 1st arrondissement, whose management and employees I met, had a white year. They will multiply social plans, which will threaten several thousand posts despite the financial assistance received because the return to normal is not expected until 2024. Another example is parking lots, the activity of which is partly related to these hotels. The managers of the car park Blanche-Pigalle, in the 9th arrondissement, a family business that employs four parking agents, have also told me of their difficulties. Their parking is located in the heart of Paris nightlife and their main partners are restaurants, theatres, hotels, all closed for several months. However, despite a significant decrease in turnover, on average by 48%, parking lots are not included in the S1, S1 bis and S2 lists. Minister-in-Office, I welcome the developments in the solidarity fund for discotheques. Is it possible to continue adapting the eligibility criteria, or even to make them retroactively applicable, under conditions, in order to enable those who invested in Paris to continue their activities after the crisis? Furthermore, would it be possible to obtain details on the state aid paid to hoteliers, restaurants and other bar managers from June onwards?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u54	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u55	Thank you, honourable Member, for pointing out that we have been at the meeting to support the companies in the capital, whose economic importance is known. We know that in Paris and perhaps in some other major cities in France, it is almost certain that hotels and some restaurants will not be able to benefit immediately from a very strong economic recovery, in the absence of tourism-related customers, especially business tourism. It will be necessary to accompany them: this is the commitment we made this week to their representatives. Very many restaurants will see a strong recovery, others less, and we will work in detail to take into account those who will be in difficulty. There will be few foreign tourists this year in France and it will be necessary to accompany the hotels from May onwards. For this month, the Solidarity Fund will be renewed under the same conditions as in April, but from June its aid will be degressive and we have provided for a re-visit clause on 31 August to decide on any adjustments, depending on the situation. You mentioned the parking lots and called on the Government to take their cases into account. Please be aware that the Government will continue to adapt the various schemes in the light of changing circumstances, in order to take account of all sectors of activity, because our economy needs all sectors of the economy. Let us not forget that France is one of the countries that has most socially assisted employees and jobseekers. I am at your disposal, together with my teams, to examine the situation of those sectors that are still under-accompanied or the specific cases that require specific action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u56	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u57	The winter sports season 2021 will have been a season of misery, let us make sure that it does not become mortiferous. Yes, the state has been present to economic actors through various massive aid schemes, but tonight I would like to talk about forgotten people. There are professions that have not yet been taken into account: hairdressers working in winter sports resorts, aesthetics firms, self-employed workers who cannot put forward a reference year in 2019 because they were injured, on sick leave or on maternity leave, business owners or entrepreneurs of the year 2020. It is essential to find a solution for all those who have missed the devices. In addition, we found that the fixed cost scheme was not appropriate for our mountain professionals. The Union sport &amp; cycle, tourist residences, holiday centers have repeatedly seized you of this problem. There is a need for evolution. I would add that Savoie was strongly affected by the non-opening of the lifts. Many files are pending with tax services. Their officers are doing a remarkable job, but I believe that human resources should be further strengthened because the waiting lists are extremely long. The next season will only take place in December 2021 and in order to allow the various players to reach this shore, it is agreed that the accompanying arrangements should be extended beyond next June and applied until November or December. Otherwise, this season is very likely for many to be dead: France may not find the first place for the winter sports destinations that it has often occupied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u58	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u59	The subjects you are calling the Government's attention to are not all specific to the mountains – I am thinking of the 2019 or 2020 reference periods, or the situation of entrepreneurs or corporate buyers – but in the short time available to us, I will focus on those who are. In Savoie, where I visited a few weeks ago, I was able to discuss directly with the mountain actors and pay tribute to them. With the Prime Minister, during several meetings, we have had constructive exchanges with these men and women who are determined to maintain their dynamism in this economic sector, which is part of our country's pride. We have responded financially massively to support closed structures, especially lifts, and I think I have heard that these devices corresponded to expectations. We have preserved the infrastructure of the mountain. You mention the need to adapt the devices to a few situations in particular. We decided that the reference period would be the first six months of 2021 to allow a comparison of sales with the first six months of 2019. This globalization, which will avoid any difficulties related to a particular month, will simplify things. With regard to hairdressers, I have worked with officials of the National Union of Hairdressers. It is obvious that hairdressers working in lounges in the valleys are not affected like those working in the stations, which may be in Savoie 40 or 50 out of a total of 2000. We asked for files to try to see if we can find specific accompaniments. In general, we will take into account the rather special, peripheral cases in order to respond to the situation of all mountain companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u60	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u61	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the state has mobilized important means to support businesses, and I know your determination in this area, Minister Delegate. Yet, there are still some holes in the snowshoe. I will mention before you a company that has not had access to the solidarity fund or to the fixed costs scheme. "What it costs is zero for us," his leader told me a few days ago. The French manufacturer of ready-to-wear, Avona, which is located in the agglomeration of Villefranche-sur-Saône, is strongly affected by the health crisis, particularly by the mandatory closures of the ten retail stores of its clothing, but also by the closure of those of its independent customers. While last year, this company mobilized quickly to make masks, after being contacted by your services, it is not currently receiving any state aid. She feels alone: can she survive? Although it has multiple activities, including retailing, it is considered by the administration only as a manufacturer of clothing. As a result, it cannot claim any aid, whereas it could have received EUR 10000 per month for each of the closed shops had they formed so many different companies. The loss of revenue already amounts to several hundred thousand euros and the carry-overs, cancellations and even the absence of orders add to this decrease. Sales losses accumulated since March 2020 will no longer be recovered after the reopening of clothing stores. Nearly eighty to ninety jobs of stylists, modellers, patrons, seamstresses and sellers are directly threatened, not to mention the indirect jobs of the service providers. Moreover, the company's boss was unable to renew the CSDs – fifty employees last year. Perhaps the most serious thing is to see that two wholesalers, who import their clothes from the other side of the world, are eligible for aid and thus preserve their jobs. Isn't there a form of injustice here? What can you do for this company that has never been supported since the first confinement and may not survive after this third confinement? It is time to consider this sector of activity. Support our creators, French manufacturers and finally give them access to the solidarity fund, integrate them into the S1 bis list and pay their fixed costs retroactively. That is the call I am making to you, Minister Delegate. Tonight, the manager and employees of this company expect a sign of hope from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u62	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u63	You know I'm not going to tell you here that everything's already settled. I had the opportunity to meet with the leaders of a considerable number of sectors and to find solutions for them, I believe, with Bruno Le Maire, but I must say that if we had already looked at the situation of wholesalers and clothing businesses, no one had so far drawn our attention to the particularities of the manufacturers. You are right, one may be surprised that the wholesalers were supported while the production came from abroad, and that the French manufacture would not have been. I pledge to you, Mr President, to contact the Avona leader tomorrow to see how we can support this company which is manufacturing in our territory, which has played a role in the context of the health crisis and which, in my view, deserves to be helped. I will keep you informed very quickly of the solution we have found.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u65	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u66	The Government was able to respond quickly and massively to the economic emergency, from the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, with the same objective always: to improve and adjust the system according to the upsurges and to remain attentive to all the actors. As a result, EUR 470 billion was put on the table to support businesses, in particular SMEs and SMEs: 1.7 million companies benefited from the solidarity fund; 600,000 were granted a State-guaranteed loan, amounting to more than 120 billion; Finally, the exemption from social contributions amounts to more than 3 billion for the TPEs and SMEs which have been closed administratively. In my department of Vendée, whose dynamism you recalled, the total aid amounted to more than 435 million euros, distributed as follows: 307 million for cohesion and intended to directly support employment – of which 231 million was paid for partial activity and, in my opinion, very important, for the "1 young person, 1 solution" plan, which involved more than 5000 young people; 112 million for competitiveness; 15.2 million dedicated to ecology and in particular MaPrimeRénov'. We are now entering not only a reconstruction phase, with a historic recovery plan that will save many businesses, but also a transformation phase. Indeed, it is no longer possible to release billions of euros of subsidies, including in sectors that are known to be unable to operate as before. Priority must be given to investing in the most promising areas. Minister Delegate, how can aid continue to be adapted to each individual case? When EMPs have been granted, are you planning targeted repayment arrangements for some businesses, which may still be in great difficulty – many of them – and little in a position to repay the amounts loaned?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u67	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u68	Nearly 700000 companies have benefited from the EMPs in the amount of EUR 134 billion and the State guarantees these loans in the amount of 90%. From the outset, we have set aside one year's delay and five years to make the repayment, since this is a system framed at European level which provides for a total loan term of six years. In view of the duration of the crisis, we, together with the banks, decided to extend the delay period to two years, leaving four years to repay. Many companies are questioning their ability to do so in four years, and I have repeatedly stressed our willingness to negotiate an extension of this deadline. To reassure the companies concerned, I would remind you that, for the time being, the first deadline is not foreseen until March-April 2022. However, I understand their concern. The second very important point is that, in addition to the massive aid granted, you have mentioned, we must now accompany those sectors that need to transform and better target the schemes. As a first step, we will focus on sectors that will find it difficult to resume their activity: events, cafes, hotels and restaurants, the cultural sector, sports halls. Finally, Bruno Le Maire announced the establishment of a participatory loan scheme for a total of €12 billion, which aims to support business transformation and investment. These participative loans, which have the advantage of not being considered as debts in the balance sheets of companies, will naturally be allocated to companies carrying investment and transformation projects. I am confident that it will be an effective tool to accompany the desired recovery, promote transformation and positively support investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u69	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u70	Since the outbreak began more than a year ago, the state has set up an extensive system of aid and has been on hand overall, with most businesses, businesses and self-employed supported through mechanisms that have adapted as the crisis continues. I'm very happy to recognize him. However, for some professionals, this aid has not been sufficient. This is particularly the case for traders located in shopping malls of more than 20,000 square meters. Since the beginning of the pandemic, these businesses have been forced to close their doors three times: from March to May 2020, in November 2020 and, finally, since February 1, 2021. They should normally reopen next May 19, if the situation permits, but they will then be subject to gauges. During the months of closure, these traders were able to benefit from the solidarity fund. However, the aid did not cover the fixed costs which they had to pay, thus obliging them to draw on their cash flow, in particular during the first confinement where the compensation was capped at EUR 1500 per month. They were also excluded from the fixed cost compensation scheme introduced last March, as the turnover floor to access it – 1 million euros per month – favours larger companies. However, their fixed costs often exceed the 10000 euros paid by the Solidarity Fund. In order to respect the principle of equality, an intermediate mechanism should have been established; This turnover floor should have been lowered or even removed. The resumption of activity will not, as if by magic, eliminate the difficulties accumulated by these traders throughout the year 2020, quite the contrary! Their cash flows are largely undercut, if not completely depleted, and they will have to repay the EMP in the coming months. It is therefore today and tomorrow that the State must be present alongside them so that the lifting of health restrictions and the state of emergency is not synonymous for them with permanent closure. How do you plan to accompany these traders in the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u71	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u72	You are right, the solidarity fund has changed considerably since March-April 2020. The aid was initially capped at EUR 1500 and limited to enterprises with fewer than 11 employees with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million. We increased it sharply in November, bringing it to 10000 euros. Finally, since December, a dual scheme has applied with aid equal to EUR 10000 or 20% of turnover. For the most important groups, there is a fixed fee. You mention the particular case of shops in shopping malls. I can give you two very precise answers. We have decided to take over the rents and rental charges of these merchants who, moreover, bear expenses due largely to their rent, usually very high in this type of place. We must conduct – this is ongoing – a specific negotiation on this subject with the European Commission. It will take a few more weeks, but we intend to succeed and take over the rents and rental charges of the traders concerned. That is our objective. I would also point out that these traders benefit from the partial activity, the exemption from social contributions and the solidarity fund which, today, is accessible to them for an amount of either 10000 euros or equal to 20 % of their turnover. With the payment of the rents, we will meet their expectations and accompany them to the level necessary to allow them to resume a correct activity. As for the gauges that will apply, it is the standard gauges in shopping centres that take into account not the number of customers but the size of the stores. I am confident that these companies will be able to carry out normal business as soon as they resume.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u73	[[The meeting, for a few moments, is immediately undertaken.]] The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u74	The next item is the debate on the military programming law and its consequences for France's independence. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first, we will hear the speakers of the groups, then the Government, and then we will carry out a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u75	Article 7 of the 2018 Military Programming Act (MPA) provided that several updates of the Act would be possible during the period 2019-2024 and that an adjustment should, in any event, be made before the end of 2021. The Act states: "These updates will make it possible to check the correct match between the objectives set out in this Act, the achievements and the means set out. So the letter is not clearer. However, the Government has decided that no specific text will be voted on in Parliament for updating. He even preferred not to organise a debate and it was at the initiative of the group La France insoubted that we are today discussing the future of national defence. We recognize here the sense of democracy that characterizes the Macron presidency! There is, however, room for debate. Yesterday in committee, you yourself, the Minister of the Armed Forces, observed that adjustments should be made. Would that not justify a broad and open discussion of the needs and priorities of national defence? Does this not require checking the adequacy of the means for the purposes? The documents which were finally transmitted to the national representation deliver a single message: everything is under control. We were provided with a list of purchases, without any real justification. No substantive, reasoned reflection is proposed on the format of the armies. At most a few scattered ratings indicate that the number of staff is expected to increase. But we do not want to justify hiring targets or to identify ways to fill jobs that have often remained vacant in recent years: I am thinking in particular of some in the field of cyber. We repeat the mantra of the complete army model, and we pretend to ignore that it's a fable. We know, for example, that we are in default in the field of tactical air transport. We also repeatedly reiterate that Operation Barkhane is dependent on Danish and British aircraft. It is also known that the MPL, as designed, will not prevent certain capacitive holes after 2023. This is particularly the case in the field of supply at sea, and it will be so for amphibious capabilities – on this last point, we are walking towards disappointments, as the equipment in question is particularly useful in helping people affected by natural disasters. There are generalities regarding the need for redundancy or the thickness of the armies, which are nevertheless a novelty compared to the report annexed to the LPM. These concepts are in clear contradiction with the logic of efficiency that still prevailed three years ago. Nevertheless, we are being asked to admit that the MPA's fiscal trajectory is in line with this new logic. It is true that the justification for this trajectory was largely artificial: it was a matter of every force to raise military spending to 2% of GDP – even if it placed the bulk of the increase in appropriations after the presidential election of 2022 – in order to obey the Otanians of Washington. In fact, Madam Minister, you conceded it yesterday in committee: the current crisis has brought us up to 2% earlier than expected. You have drawn, curiously, an argument that no text should sanction the updating of the MPA. Perhaps it is for fear of Bercy refusing to continue to incur expenses? I note, for my part, that the reflection had been biased. In 2018, we would have done better to think about needs, rather than spending limits! Of course, one of the major shortcomings of the reflection on the update is the external operations (OPEX): once again, no assessment is made of them. In 2018, it was considered that the level of expenditure of OPEX would be set at EUR 1.1 billion and would not move any further. We still do not agree: on the one hand, it is a challenge to the principle of interdepartmental funding of the OPEX – you may hope, over time, that it has been forgotten –; On the other hand, we refuse to assume that our armies must maintain such a level of external engagement, especially since the results are inconclusive. This obviously determines a very large part of the functioning of our armies; It affects both operational readiness and the regeneration of equipment, which is subject to particular wear and tear in the Sahelian theatre. To support these missions with uncertain effects, the Government boasts its ability to mobilize European partners. In general, the strategic update draws a positive and overly flattering assessment of cooperation with our partners. However, it is alarming that Germany's efforts to impose its views do not require any development by the Government. On the pretext of a "burden-sharing" objective, petty and short-sighted, France allows Germany to become, gradually, a framework nation in the military field. However, I often point out that the latter has torn Schwerin's agreements on the sharing of space expertise, and I must point out to you today that it is firmly positioning itself to be a leader in this field. It has become the first funder of the European Space Agency, and its contribution allows it to move forward in the mini-launchers segment. Today, however, we learn that an agreement would have been reached to notify the command of a demonstrator for the combat aircraft of the future! For the record, the Bundestag will be called upon to vote on such a draft, but not the National Assembly. It is hard to believe that this does not affect the enforcement of the MPA. In general, the most structuring projects have never been the subject of a vote in Parliament. The creation of a space command? No vote! The fact that this command is in close relationship with the NATO centre – North Atlantic Treaty Organization – dedicated to space? No vote! The launch of the next-generation aircraft carrier project? No vote! Will this project affect the budget trajectory of the MPA? In what way? Are we only able to say that exactly? We won't know. The same applies to arms contracts. Thirty Rafales are announced for sale in Egypt; We shout "Hurrah! ", and we're moving on. Yesterday, I asked whether the loan guarantee that France was insuring on this contract, entered into with a notoriously over-indebted State, could have an impact on the execution of the LPM. You only told me that Egypt, so far, had never been lacking. You have not answered the second part of the question: how much have these guarantee mechanisms cost the State over the last fifteen years? Can they affect the execution of the MPA? Beyond these financial considerations, certain issues cannot be avoided. Is arming Marshal al-Sisi's dictatorship a good thing? Not having obtained human rights guarantees; Not having obtained the release of political prisoners, like Ramy Shaath, is that a good thing? No. The close partnership that France, under Emmanuel Macron, has with dictatorships, is not such as to guarantee the security of the French. It is enough to see the rise of anti-French sentiment in many regions. Whatever you say, minister, not everything can be attributed to the manipulation of information by rival powers. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in recent years the methods of confrontation have multiplied, and that their intensity has increased. Our hospitals, for example, have been subjected to numerous computer attacks. Everyone sees that the competition for raw materials takes a critical turn. The grip that some private actors – notably the Internet giants, the GAFAMs – gradually conquered on our lives is unprecedented in history. It calls for an extremely firm response from States, particularly France, to guarantee our submarine cables, for example. The situation is very degraded, and the covid-19 pandemic has shown the extent of our dependence on external supplies. The conclusions of the strategic update are not up to date. Like the strategic review, this update serves as a justification for a policy of powdering and pooling resources at European level, rather than for a genuine mobilization of the resources of our people – a mobilization that would be possible, in particular, by the citizen conscription defended by Unsuspecting France, in which about a quarter of the participants, on a voluntary basis, would be assigned to national defence. It would be the best guarantee of our resilience and independence in the face of emerging threats. Observe a semantic detail that reflects the Government's ambitions: to the notions of national sovereignty or independence, the authors of the strategic update subreptitiously substituted the expression "national autonomy". What a confession! I say to you, Madam Minister: France is not a small state with a certain autonomy within a European federation. It is a sovereign state, and its sovereignty lies in its people – people who do not exist at European level. His defence must be independent, and at the service of his independence. It must not align itself with any other power, but must assume a policy of peaceful grandeur in the service of the general human interest. This should be the ambitious course of the LPM; This is not the case, and the absence of debate and of a re-visit clause prevents us from responding to the challenges of our time. You, together with President Macron, have a great responsibility in this area. We therefore question our ability to defend the interests of the homeland and its citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u76	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u77	Beyond the military programming law, which proposes military budgets from 2019 to 2025, it is the question of the army and the military that arises. Why are they working? What mission does the nation entrust to them? French independence begins with soldiers who have basic equipment and a duly paid pay – all this was very difficult to obtain in recent years! With regard to basic equipment, our dependence on other States on ammunition and assault rifles is shocking. How will we do if a crisis breaks out, and our military is experiencing a shortage of ammunition? Since 2020, crises that create supply disruptions are not only military; they can also be sanitary, mixed or digital. How can we ensure our military sovereignty, if we are not sovereign in our ability to manage our digital data? How can we do this if we do not have a sovereign industry in these fundamental areas? How, in the long run, can we do this if our capacity programmes are taken over by the European Union and our industrial sovereignty is scattered within a Union unable to speak with one voice to define its strategic and diplomatic priorities? All in all, the only military industry that is almost 100% French is that of nuclear deterrence. At a time when nuclear weapons are being called into question at the global level, when the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons has entered into force, and when the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is struggling to move forward, is France not lagging behind? Is it not time to put an end to an armament that uses almost 15 per cent of the total budget of the military programming law, and which has no effect? We must ask ourselves about the usefulness of nuclear weapons, for which France will have spent no less than 14.5 million euros a day between 2019 and 2025. By what right do some powers arrogate the possibility to destroy and dominate the world? Shouldn't we invest in maintaining a credible defence industry in armaments that would serve to defend French territory? The technical expertise in the nuclear field, and the financial resources devoted to it, could rather be made available to research, for example, to develop civil nuclear fusion. For Communist deputies, the army must not be deployed systematically to protect our geostrategic and economic interests, as in the Sahel, or to protect our state secrets, as in Libya. It must be used to protect the French: that is what the military expects. Governments have been launching the army in wars since decolonization; It is no longer acceptable to the other peoples, to the French people, or to the soldiers who lose too many comrades without understanding the real objectives of their action. But how do we protect the French? By monitoring our maritime and land borders. What can be said, too, about the means of intelligence, another guarantee of sovereignty? Our membership in NATO is also problematic for our sovereignty. It obliges us to deploy our soldiers to theatres of operations, which are not necessarily those desired by the French people. When we leave NATO, we would have more means to protect our territory. We have the second largest maritime space in the world – we have enough to do! Yet, in comparison with what we spend on nuclear weapons, we have nothing to protect French waters against piracy, illegal fishing or environmental degradation. The same applies to our land borders: the military who defend the border in Guyana, for example, and who fight against illegal gold mining, could benefit from important additional resources. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. -Mr. David Habib also applauds]] The Communist deputies denounced your programming law, because it did not adequately meet the real needs of the soldiers, and it was too consistent with NATO's demands. It is high time to put things back in place, and to ask ourselves the real questions of sovereignty, whether military or civilian. It is at this price that we could define ourselves as a great power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u78	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u79	What is a military programming law for? Article 34 of the Constitution provides a first response, stipulating that the programming laws determine the objectives of the State's action. The practice of these laws demonstrates the value of this tool. Since 1960 and the first military program law, which, in only five articles, defined the deterrent force, program and programming laws followed each other. They lay down, over periods of five to seven years, objectives sufficiently close to take action, and sufficiently far away to include them in the long term. They have become the crucible from which defence policy emerges, this adaptation chosen from our means to the strategic ambitions of the nation. It is also in these laws that the trans-party consensus that makes our armies a democratic tool for the protection of our citizens and the defence of our interests in the world is forged. This is a chance for our republic. What has the majority done since 2017? The strategic review, released in the fall of 2017, outlined the security environment and strategic objectives to be achieved. The Government drew the consequences in an LPM 2019-2025, promulgated on July 13, 2018. By declining the necessary resources, which France had to equip itself by 2025, we assumed a historic rupture, that of the upsurge in power of our armed forces. In the course of this work, Parliament has ensured that its role of monitoring the commitments made is recognised by voting on an update exercise, one of which is scheduled before the end of 2021 – we are here. Now, what do we see? First, in order to meet the deadline, the Government launched an update of its strategic review in 2020. What are his conclusions? The trends identified in 2017 remain current: the horizon of some risks is approaching and some threats are intensifying. This update confirms all the foundations of the MPA that we have been implementing since 2019. The work of the committee, which I chair, confirms this. We then note that the political will has not changed since the beginning of the implementation of the LPM: the first two years have been executed with the euro and we voted for a budget for 2021 in line with the programming. The defence effort continues to rise to the challenges we face. The implementation of the LPM allows us to repair our armed forces, accelerate equipment programs, invest in their maintenance and improve the lives of the military, as we all wanted. The observation is therefore simple: there is no context element, no failure of execution challenges what we voted for. Madam Minister of the Armed Forces, on February 19, you announced that the Government did not identify any new legislative needs at the end of this forward-looking and budgetary work. You told us with conviction yesterday, detailing the reasons for this choice. We take note of that. The updating of the Intelligence Act and the 2022 Finance Bill are sufficient for the immediate legislative needs identified by the Government. I'm convinced of that. The appointment scheduled for 2021 is therefore satisfied, the heading confirmed, you said, and the bar held. The majority has demonstrated their determination to repair our armies and meet the military challenges of our time. Our record, since 2017, is remarkable and remarkable – and, with hindsight, it will be historic. What's left for us to do? We must go further, it is the whole sense of work that we begin with the hearings of the main civil and military officials concerned, involving experts, industrialists and foreign partners. The purpose of this cycle is to broaden our collective consideration of defence issues, to inform our fellow citizens on the relevance of the choices made. When it is finished, there will be a sense that the Government will make a statement before us, followed by a debate, in order to reinforce the consensus that defence policy needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u80	There's no vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u81	But let us not be mistaken: serious challenges remain. Thus, the end of the health crisis is looming, as is its economic and budgetary consequences, although it is still too early to assess them precisely. When we begin to see more clearly, the question of maintaining our defence effort will arise, probably before 2025. The challenge of updating will then be quite different. My conviction is that without a scrupulous execution of the 2019-2025 LPM and without the continuation or even amplification of this effort beyond 2025 to achieve the 2030 Ambition, we risk the strategic downgrading. We cannot resolve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u82	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u83	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] These perspectives therefore set a purpose for the debate: to make our fellow citizens aware of the efforts we will have to make tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u84	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u85	I would like to recall in the preamble the terms of the letter from the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. The Republicans of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, addressed to the chairman of the said commission, on the refusal to abide by the provisions of the military programming law, in particular in its Article 7, by not scheduling the updating of the latter before the end of this year 2021: a position reiterated yesterday by the vice-president of the Charles de la Verpillière commission, member of the LR group, at your hearing by the committee, Madam Minister. It is paradoxical that you state that strategic updating, on the one hand, and feedback from the field, on the other, require capacity adjustments in three main areas to strengthen our ability to act in future conflicts, including hybrid conflicts, without considering the necessary updating of the MPA. It is thus more necessary than ever for the Defence Committee – but also the whole Parliament – to be fully informed of the options envisaged by the Government. In other words, the latter's position commits only him and does not prevent a debate from taking place in committee but also in the Chamber. You yourself recalled that this exercise should be an important subject of public debate. I would add that your Ministry's numerous press releases, mentioning your travels across the country and in industrial sites, contain various and varied announcements that cause trouble as to their suitability for the LPM. While the LPM is an indispensable forward-looking framework that allows us to set a course, mobilize our armed forces and economic forces in a long-term pattern, the world is in constant movement with ever-changing health, economic and conflict crises. However, the ambition to maintain our independence rests on an appropriate response to this permanent movement, through, on the one hand, our ability to anticipate and deal with crises in an emergency and, on the other hand, through our ability to support defence actors, including economic actors, for whom research, development and production require appropriate solutions and in a short time. I will take two examples. The first is a missed appointment whose effects were cruelly highlighted during the health crisis. Indeed, in 2016, the Central Military Pharmacy was sounding an alarm about the shortage of active ingredients necessary for the manufacture of vaccines for our military – the same active ingredients being used for the population. So five years ago, I alerted the ministries of defence and the economy about the major risks of a historic relocation of 80% of the active pharmaceutical substances used in Europe and manufactured outside the EU, mainly in China and India, while 80% of the pharmaceutical market focused on the USA, EU and Japan. The risks were already well identified: shortage, geopolitical situation, use of national preference in times of crisis, natural risks, regulatory, environmental and pharmaceutical constraints, economic hazards, safety risks due to a quality deficit, lack of inspection or intentional falsification... Despite this alert, no answer! And today, the Government seems to discover this problem and inject tens of millions of euros in an attempt to restore our health sovereignty. The second example sticks to the news and concerns the weapon of the future: laser. We have in this field a national flagship with a Loirtin company that has just demonstrated before the General Directorate of Armaments and the Defence Innovation Agency, at the Biscarrosse testing centre, the operability of its anti-drones system. The needs of this technology and its applications for our armies and for internal security are obvious. We are at the forefront of this, but what will happen tomorrow if the investment necessary to move to the production stage is not committed? The decision is to be made today if we want to stay in the race, be present in a very promising market and, above all, if we do not want to depend tomorrow on foreign technology. These are two examples of the limits of the MPA and, above all, of the willingness of successive governments to project and anticipate, through investments, with the consequences that such an attitude entails for our independence. Finally, parliamentarians have a strong influence on the territory and a fine knowledge of the economic fabric. They alerted and supported the Government, but they still needed to be heard sufficiently, and there was still a need for the means of updating the debate. A world on the move requires organized institutions to be very reactive. It is in particular under these conditions that France's independence can be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u86	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u87	Three years ago, in 2018, we adopted the most ambitious military programming law in 20 years. For the first time since those who preceded us wanted to reap the dividends of peace, a significant effort was being made in favour of our armies. It's simple: the previous LPM proposed a defence budget of 31.4 billion euros for 2017. Even after the 2015 update, as a result of the attacks, the increase in the budget was sluggish, with less than 1% per year, i.e. a budget of 32.5 billion euros. After the 2017 strategic review, the choice was made of a serious reinvestment to maintain a complete military model in order to meet the full spectrum of threats. An increase of almost 5% per year was therefore planned to reach a budget of €39.2 billion in 2021. This significant increase was meant to be man-made, sincere and realistic, bringing increased interest to the military and their families, as well as to the improvement of the soldier's daily life. For example, small equipment has been improved, large equipment programmes have been confirmed or announced as the successor of Charles de Gaulle. This announcement, which requires us until the end of the century, must remind us of the excellence of our national industry and our ability to build any program independently. This autonomy is the guarantee of our national independence, which the pandemic has reminded us of. Some strategic industrial sectors are vital to us. As such, while European cooperation can be good, it must not be done at any price or make us forget that the defence industry is profitable and non-relocable. It is therefore to be welcomed that it is doing well, while the economic and geostrategic context has rarely been so dark. Indeed, since 2018, oppositions between great powers have become clearer and the means of power are getting stronger. It is enough to observe Turkey and Iran. Even in our neighbours: the British are moving towards a new model of a completely futuristic army and increasing their nuclear weapons stockpiles, a first since the end of the cold war. However, if the United Kingdom is not a threat to us, its approach remains interesting. I will not repeat here the Strategic Update 2021 that you have already had the opportunity to read. However, in view of its findings regarding the persistence and hybridization of threats or the hardening of power logics, we must welcome the relevance of what had been planned and the rise in power that we voted for. Where would we be today without that? Yet, these days, we can read fora advocating what the army should or should not do; stands full of "there's only one thing to do" and flourish in a state of disbelief and fear and doubt. And there is this rostrum, that of the National Assembly, where we, the representatives of the people, are able to transcribe the truth of numbers and things and of what goes in the right direction. But how many media, how many fellow citizens will relay this message? It is more salesman to search for culprits forever than to seek solutions, more profitable to sell fears the next day than to work in the next few days without fear. Before concluding, allow me to point out, since we are in a week of monitoring, a regret about the energy spent, during the review of the MPA, on the attached report. We were many on these benches to have amended this part of the text with passion, but it must be noted that these amendments were followed by very little effect. You will forgive me for taking one of my own amendments as an example, but it concerned the reservists who are precisely the subject of a fact-finding mission by the Defence Committee, which I am leading with our colleague Jean-François Parigi. The aim was to implement the digitisation of information and management of the activities of the army reservists through an Internet portal. But for the past three years, almost nothing has changed. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this is what the Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) Group and related democrats wanted to say in order to set out the terms of the debate. I would like to stress to conclude the immense national effort that is being made and that remains to be done, for the benefit of our armies in these difficult times, because it is essential for our soldiers to feel the great confidence that the French give them and the unwavering support of their representatives, without their being involved or assimilated to any controversy whatsoever.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u88	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u89	In the face of the challenges of increasing international tensions and the rise of regional powers, it has become essential to change our strict understanding of the national interest in defence by ensuring that well-thought-out cooperation – both operational and capacitive as well as industrial – becomes a structural element to ensure our long-term independence. The military programming law makes several advances on these two points, although this trend remains to be confirmed by 2025. In the operational field, in the face of the sometimes persistent presence of capacity gaps within our military aircraft, the use of cooperation with European and foreign partner States has enabled France's external missions and operations to continue and be carried out at their conclusion: these cooperations between allies have ensured the continuity of the missions of our armed forces. It has become imperative to address capacity gaps, particularly with regard to the air defence fleet. I am thinking in particular of the Airbus A400M Atlas or the MRTT aircraft – multiroletankertransport – for which France is obliged to use external resources, for strategic transport as tactics. François Cornut-Gentille's report on the 2018 Finance Bill recognized "the decisive support for the surveillance and refuelling capabilities provided by the United States in particular, without which many of our operations would not be possible." Substantial investments and budgets are needed more than ever to address capacity gaps. To what extent does the LMP allow this? Industrial cooperation with our European partners should also be fully integrated as a structural element in the defence of our national interests, which now necessarily involve the development of genuine strategic autonomy and a European industrial and technological defence base. This implies the development of military equipment in common: the law of military programming contributes to this. As far as industrial cooperation is concerned, we are seeing the beginning of a new dynamic: European cooperation has become an integral part of French policy and must now be fully associated with the national defence strategy. France must play a central role in promoting European convergence. To do this, we must be blameless in our investment and research efforts. The programming law provides that the creation of a genuine European defence industrial and technological base is an essential issue for the French defence industry, since it will allow all developments of new systems to be pooled on the basis of the converging needs between the Member States. The challenge is immense because of the existing differences, including between France and Germany. How does the Government intend to preserve its strategic autonomy while promoting the emergence of a common defence, backed by a European defence and industrial base in formation? France, with the support of its European partners, must create a new dynamic to modernise the army and engage in areas of the future, such as the ecological transition. Research and development activities in this area must be considered and implemented at European level: real change cannot be envisaged without our partners and it is more than urgent that the European Union take a stand on this issue, in order to assert its place and maintain its independence. Cooperation with our European partners and the definition of genuine European strategic autonomy should therefore be seen as the horizon for the modernisation and reform of future armies. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] The fact-finding mission on environmental transition issues for the Ministry of Armed Forces issued this morning the first report of the National Assembly on this issue. I hope that you will be aware of this, Madam Minister: the military programming law should address this issue, which seems to me to be a major strategic issue, both at European and global level. Of course, it is important for France to be at the forefront in this area, including geopolitical and geostrategic. I invite all our colleagues to take note of this report, which is the result of a six-month work and seems to me to answer several of the questions that are being put.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u90	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u91	We are gathered this evening to discuss one of the most important commitments of the quinquennium: the defence effort and its contribution to our national sovereignty. France's independence rests on many aspects: the performance of its research, the strength of its economy, the sustainability of its debt, the strength of its agriculture, the finesse of its diplomacy, and so many others. The defence tool is only one aspect, but it remains major, as it gives strength and credibility to the voice of our country, giving it an ability to appreciate and act independently. Before I begin, of course, I would like to pay tribute to the strength of our military commitment. Their dedication honors us as much as it compels us. It requires us, in particular, to get out of postures and certainties, to dare the audacity, in short: to debate. I also have a thought for Olivier Dubois, a French journalist whose hostage-taking by the GSIM – Group to Support Islam and Muslims – in Mali today. Returning to the law of military programming, the health crisis has shown that in the twenty-first century, strategic surprise still exists and that when it strikes, only two solutions exist: to be ready and to take the shock, or not to be prepared and to suffer it by trying to minimize its effects, which turns out to be long and costly for the nation. This crisis is an accelerator of well-identified trends in the 2017 strategic review. In recent months, the logics of indirect confrontations are multiplying – hostile military exercises, informational warfare, technological competition, aggressive diplomacy – leaving the post-covid world to be even more unstable and dangerous than before. Against this backdrop, China-US confrontation, the fight against fundamentalisms, the need to strengthen weak or failed states, major technological disruptions and climate change persist. This crisis has also revealed some of France's structural weaknesses and, more generally, those that are sometimes associated with democracies. It has made us rediscover the need to protect the entire national territory. It could be just a foretaste of other crises of even greater magnitude, and not necessarily covered by our deterrent capacity, whether it be a major conflict or a cyber, climate, technological, or energy incident. It offers an opportunity for an awareness that we must seize: we must urgently ask ourselves how to strengthen our national resilience. So here we are in a race against the clock: on the one hand, the world panics and becomes swollen; On the other hand, we must lead a drum beating a rise in the power of our military apparatus, but also rethink our means of resilience, including close to the territories. Four years after launching a proactive policy decided by the President of the Republic, declined by you, Madam Minister, and validated by Parliament, France has embarked on the renewal of its forces: in four years, 140 billion euros, or 2000 euros per French, have been spent on national defence and the armed forces, of which 18 billion new resources since 2017. This unprecedented effort, made in the context of a social and health crisis, deserves to be recognised and praised, as well as its implementation with the euro. These investments were necessary, but they do not, of course, provide us with a deeper strategic thinking at the political level – on the contrary. Let's see what our close neighbours are doing. Let us take the example of the integratedreview, which certainly responds to British concerns, but remains rich in teachings, as it has been able to overcome firmly anchored postulates: across the Manche, our allies free themselves from conventional expeditionary logics and make the choice to reinvest the global commands, privileged places of grey actions, where reign the uninhibited power allowed by a strong interaction between the private and military sectors. Our commonalities with the British, but also our different geography, both island and continental, require us to challenge this vision. I will therefore conclude by listing a few lines of effort, in addition to those you announced yesterday before the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, Madam Minister. First, we must re-examine our country's ability to cope with a long-term shock. The creation of a resilient strategic function, which we call for, is excellent news. We would like to have more details about it and possibly be associated with its definition. Secondly, we must constantly ask ourselves about the vast amount of resources available. With regard to human resources, further reflection on the reserve could be useful, in addition to the fact-finding mission on the subject. As far as material resources are concerned, we must ensure the quantity of basic resources, particularly in the area of mobility, in order to redress the negative effects of the PEGP, the policy of employment and the management of the parks. [[Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer applauds]] Finally, the effort under the MPA must not only be an opportunity to gain in tonnage and shielding, but also to seek new priorities that can increase the impact of our capabilities. The data, that's what will change the situation: the commandandcontrol must focus our attention. Here are some elements of reflection that we wanted to share with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u92	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u93	Let's make it clear: the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025 is, after decades of budget gaps, capacity abandonments and reductions in human resources, a satisfactory law that can correct the mistakes of the past while preparing for the future. That is what we owe to all the military and their families. Members of the IDU and independent group therefore welcome the work done to stem the capacitive haemorrhage, as well as the energy you have deployed to ensure that the word given is not flouted. While since 1985 no military programming legislation has been complied with, the implementation of this MPA is, for the time being, a strong signal to the armies and the military, who have seen for too long the budgets and the means promised vary according to the events. While we welcome these various points, we regret – I have had the opportunity to inform you in committee – that no legislative update of the MPA is planned until the end of 2021, contrary to the provisions of Article 7 of the text. This is all the more damaging as the findings and guidelines contained in the strategic review of 2017, on which the military programming law was based, have evolved over the past four years: the geostrategic situation has changed profoundly, the level of conflict in the world has increased and competition between major powers has intensified. The Russian and Chinese military powers, which continue to rise in power, no longer hesitate to impose their views and interests through the balance of power and the policy of fait accompli. Other countries, such as Iran and Turkey, seize all the strategic opportunities available to them to strengthen their status as regional power and to advance their interests, even if this must go through the trampling of international norms or alliances established for decades. Similarly, to paraphrase General Thierry Burkhard's remarks, Europe is now "enclosed" by "the militarization of the world without complexes" and has seen the outbreak of real armed conflicts involving heavy means. As such, the assumption that France will soon be engaged in high-intensity conflicts against adversaries with sophisticated means, far from the asymmetrical conflicts we know, is unfortunately becoming more and more likely. If these new threats and risks were described in Strategic Update 2021, we would have liked this document to serve as a framework for a legislative update of the MPA, just as we would have liked Parliament not to be excluded from the development of this major public policy that is the defence of the nation. In the face of the dangers that threaten our country, is the military format set out in the 2013 White Paper still relevant? Will the capacitive holes that affect us be filled quickly? When the time comes, will our soldiers be operational and their equipment available? Finally, will we be able to control and defend our EEZ – exclusive economic zone – against the growing appetite of foreign powers? While defence is the life assurance of our nation and the guarantee that our citizens can continue to live free, the UDI-I Group hopes that the purely accounting vision driven by the demands of the moment, which has done so much harm to our armies in the past, will not take over. If France's objective of increasing its defence efforts to 2% of GDP is already achieved, as the rapporteur-general of the budget reminded us when examining the recovery plan, it goes without saying that these indicators do not mean much more today and that it would be particularly dangerous to use them as the alpha and the omega to define future budgetary appropriations. The only question that deserves to be asked is whether or not our defence needs are being met so that we are prepared to deal with all the scenarios that might arise, whether low- or high-intensity, on national territory or outside our borders. With these regrets and fears being expressed, our group thanks the Members of the French Parliament for putting this debate on the agenda, as well as our committee chair, Françoise Dumas, for all the work that this committee will continue to carry out on all the issues that are closely or by far related to the MPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u94	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u95	I too would like to pay tribute to our colleagues in La France, who have included, as part of their parliamentary niche, this debate which I believe is indispensable – everyone agrees to recognize it. Let me also welcome the excellent climate in the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces and the quality of its work. The action of President Françoise Dumas is not foreign to it, but I think that your regular arrivals, Madam Minister, are not. I am delighted that all of you are returning to the Chamber on this crucial subject of national defence. Let us not forget that we speak in the eyes of the whole nation, of France and of the soldiers who expect so much from us. The sources of instability around the world have increased dramatically in recent years. Faced with these risks, which are sometimes unprecedented, almost unimaginable only a few years ago, we have to think today about the conditions for our independence – again and again independence! It rests on two armed arms: on the one hand, strategic autonomy, that is, absolute control of our choices of action; On the other hand, our budgetary sovereignty. I must begin by welcoming, in this third year, the respect of the path envisaged for the implementation of the programming law. The Ministry's budget commitment for the military is on track, although most of the increases in the military budget are based on the years 2023 to 2025. I wonder if this trajectory will be maintained, especially given the crisis. Contrary to what was planned, you have waived the legislative review clause, which is provided for in the MPA. But tonight, in a way, we're reviewing the copy. This appointment, not missed but cancelled by the Government, must not prevent us from debating the French army of tomorrow. It alone will enable us to ensure our full independence. Let us not be mistaken: being independent does not mean being lonely. However, a clear observation must be made: France is often very alone, the news still shows. Our struggle in the Sahel is marked by the determination of our troops and the absence of our neighbours. The dead are mostly in our ranks: two French soldiers have already died in combat since the beginning of this year. Madam Minister, on the eve of the French Presidency of the European Union, how can we encourage our European neighbours to really mobilize – humanly, financially and diplomatically? Let us not forget that our country is in a special situation. It is not the shield of one people but of all the peoples of Europe. In this respect, since Brexit, we are the only ones defending nuclear deterrence for the European Union. This deterrence, which guarantees our independence, is an advantage enjoyed by the whole Union. We must therefore provide ourselves with the means to fully play this role and to live up to these challenges. I come to an essential issue: independence in the digital age. In each debate, cyber defence is identified as a priority. However, if there are many ads, there are relatively few results for the time being. We are late where it would be crucial to be early. While we are seeking our lost influence, the military programming law, as it stands, will not lead us to the time of complete independence. France stands in the shadow of the other members of the Security Council, which has offensive and defensive capabilities in this regard. However, it was often said that France had always had an advance quarrel and a war of delay. Minister, cyber defence risks becoming the strange defeat of the 21st century for our country. I call it strange because it could manifest itself without France deploying its means to fight. I welcome your ministry's efforts to recruit 27,000 people in 2021, particularly in the field of cyber defence. But we should focus our efforts on the advanced industry as a matter of priority. How do you intend to correct the shooting to protect our interests and information systems in cyberspace? Would there not be some valuable subsidies to glean and recover from NATO? I always wonder what we can do about it, given that we have declared and determined enemies there. A similar finding could be made with regard to cybersecurity. Our delay in military drones is striking, at a time when Turkey has already deployed hundreds of them since the 2000s and when China and Israel succeeded in becoming the first exporters. How can we breathe new life into our digital goals?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u96	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u97	[[Smile]] In this matter, we need to dare. I will therefore not hesitate to recall this famous sentence launched in the Assembly by Danton in support of the army at the Battle of Valmy: "From the audacity, again from the audacity, always from the audacity, and France is saved. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u98	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u99	Before addressing the issue at the heart of our debate, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of one of our police officers whom we learned this evening that he had been fatally injured in intervention in Avignon. I address my thoughts to his family, his loved ones and his colleagues in the National Police, again bereaved. Almost three years ago, here, you approved the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025 by a very large majority. Together, we had chosen the ambition of reviving our armies, aware that this was the only way to guarantee the defence of the French tomorrow. We are building the armies of the next fifty years. You know as well as I do, building and maintaining a military tool is a long-term job. It is also an eminently political act vis-à-vis our fellow citizens, our partners and our opponents. In 2017, the President of the Republic laid the foundations for this political act, which has been reflected and embodied in the defence budget desired by the Government and which you have confirmed every year. Over the past three years, programming resources and objectives have been met. This is rare enough to be stressed. For the past three years, you have adopted budgets in accordance with the military programming law to the letter. It's new. For the past four years, we have implemented each budget in accordance with the original finance law to the euro. It's historical. Today our armies have 18 billion euros more than in 2017. This had never happened in the twenty-first century, not to say for more than fifty years. Respect for the LPM and its objectives: it is this will that I want to reaffirm tonight and that I have already had the opportunity to address your colleagues in the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces yesterday. By investing as we have done and as we will continue to do, we are making the choice, desired by many of our fellow citizens, of industrial sovereignty, research and innovation. We also make the choice of employment and social cohesion because our armies are a formidable generator of skills for our country, capable of opening up paths for tens of thousands of young people. Finally, we make the choice of security for the French and collective security. To achieve these goals to the end, the military programming law must be able to adapt to changing threats and learn from the lessons we learn from the most recent conflicts. This is why, following the update of the strategic review or, to put it more simply, after updating our threat assessment, we began work on the LPM's adjustment tracks. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But before I tell you more, I want to reaffirm to you that the ambition of the LPM is intact. The adjustments we are working on are fully in line with the priorities we had identified together in 2018: to continue the upsurge of our armies, to deepen the construction of strategic autonomy and European sovereignty, to consolidate our industrial and technological base of defence, to build a model of a complete army and, finally, to continue the reforms to the level of man to improve the living conditions and commitment of the women and men of this ministry. The human capital of our armies is invaluable and deserves sustained attention. The course will be firmly preserved, be assured. I also want to reiterate to you that resources are and will be preserved. These are those determined by the LPM, i.e. 198 billion euros over the period 2019-2023, with an expected increase of 3 billion euros over 2022 in 2023. As the President of the Republic stated in Brest on 19 January during his wishes to the armies, this effort will therefore be maintained under the conditions provided for until 2023 by the law of military programming, with the objective of operational ambition set for our armies by 2030. Some may regret – some of you have, moreover – the lack of an update of the MPA itself, which was to provide for the consolidation of resources after 2023 to bring them to 2% of GDP by 2025. But what would have happened then? We would have made two observations together: the first is that, arithmetically, because of the economic consequences of the health crisis, we are already at 2% of GDP, and the second is that given the current uncertainties, one can wonder who could determine precisely today what our growth will be by 2024-2025. Should we consider that the objective is being achieved when, as we know, much remains to be done? Of course not! So let us focus first on reviving our economy before re-evaluating our growth prospects by 2025. In order to overcome the economic consequences of the health crisis, the President of the Republic has decided to mobilize €470 billion to support some of the sectors that have suffered the most, such as aeronautics, automobiles, tourism or culture, and the Government has implemented a solidarity fund to prevent cessation of activities. This French response was one of the most powerful among the developed countries, and it was exemplary. In addition, the Government is implementing a stimulus plan that will allow an additional €100 billion to be injected into our economy in the coming months; Reported to our national wealth, this is one of the most ambitious recovery plans in the European Union. And it is done with Europe, with the solidarity of the Member States, since the European Union contributes 40%. In our defence, I recall that the LPM is a stimulus plan alone. We are indeed making a proactive effort in this area. As early as June of last year, the ministry undertook to support the aviation industry, with concrete consequences: on 15 April last, I was with some of you in Marignane, and I notified Airbus Helicopters of the order of eight Caracal helicopters that will support the activity and jobs not only on this site, but also among the subcontractors who also suffered from the crisis. At the same time, the ministry benefits from the economic recovery plan to accelerate its energy transition through the thermal renovation of our buildings and thus contribute to the economies of the territories. In total, at the end of April, the Ministry was able to commit more than 370 million euros beyond the appropriations provided by the MPA. It is only when we revive the economy, at the end of this crisis, that it will be relevant to restate the issue of the consolidation of resources for our armies in 2024 and 2025. For the time being, we have identified first capacity adjustments in three key areas that will enhance our ability to act in future conflicts: detection, protection and preparedness. The first axis, entitled "Better Detection and Countering", aims to strengthen the priority we give to intelligence by developing, among other things, our defensive and offensive capabilities in the field of cyber and digital. In order to strengthen our cyber defence, we will double the computing and mass data storage capabilities, relying heavily on artificial intelligence for data processing, and will fully invest the field of large-scale influence struggle by multiplying our efforts in this field by threefold. The watchword is: faster and stronger. We will therefore speed up all these orders by taking two years ahead of the programming. We will also, in order to strengthen surveillance capabilities, accelerate the rise of our electromagnetic intelligence capabilities. What we must remember is that tomorrow our country will be able to detect and monitor a potential enemy, and act everywhere, on earth, on the seas, under the seas to the deep seabed, in the air, in outer space and in the digital world. I now turn to the second axis of adjustment, entitled "Better Protection". It consists of accelerating the effort to build resilience and protect our forces and the French in the national territory, and covers three areas in particular: the so-called NRBC risks – nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical – and health and the fight against drones. The health crisis that we are going through has highlighted sectors that require more investment, particularly in the face of NRBC risks. For example, by 2022, we will order more than 20,000 additional protective masks for our forces against NRBC-type threats and more than 60000 filter cartridges, knowing that chemical attacks have been carried out in recent years, particularly in Syria. This equipment will be delivered to our armies as early as 2023, four years ahead of the initial target of 2027. In the field of health, we will improve the medical evacuation capabilities of the armies by, among other things, ordering 20 additional MEDEVAC kits – air medical evacuation – for helicopters and by improving the management of medical evacuations by tactical transport aircraft such as A400M or CASA CN-235. With regard to the anti-drones struggle, which, I would remind you, is part of the Ministry of Armed Forces' innovation strategy and which has affirmed itself as a key operational area in the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict, we are working on two fronts: on the one hand, in research and development, in order to prepare future systems for the identification and neutralisation of drones, and, on the other hand, in the short term, by the acquisition, at very short notice, of existing means to further secure our sensitive installations, major national events and our deployed forces. The means already proven to protect the G7 and 14 July will be expanded, which will strengthen security, particularly during the Rugby World Cup in 2023 and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. Finally, I come to the third axis, entitled "Better preparation". It concerns training and operational readiness. Today's conflicts show that our armies must be ready to respond in all fields of conflict, whether material or immaterial. This requires more extensive and sophisticated training, especially in these new spaces of conflict. The ongoing effort on the availability of materials will be continued in order to increase daily training and to improve the preparation scenarios. We will also need to strengthen our use of simulation and make it as realistic and ambitious as possible. The work of declination of adjustments according to the three axes I have just described is not yet complete, the examples I have just given are only the first illustrations. It is now a question of specifying exactly the needs and identifying the compensations while ensuring the consistency of our model and the achievement of our objectives. Today, in all areas, the MPA continues. The President of the Republic, I recall, confirmed his fiscal trajectory until 2023. Despite the crisis, orders do not stop, deliveries continue and reforms are bearing fruit. Since the beginning of this year alone, in order to support our industrial and technological defence base in a context that is known to be difficult, we have accelerated the order of two defence and intervention frigates, which translates into concretely the sustainability of 1200 jobs at Naval Group and its subcontractors, and also anticipated the order of the eight Caracal helicopters that I mentioned earlier as well as a system of aerial drones for the navy, thus preserving 1000 jobs for three years throughout the country. Finally, Rafale's export to Greece will result in the purchase of eighteen new aircraft at Dassault – including from our forces – to which will soon be added the thirty Rafale destined for Egypt. Let us have in mind that a rate of one Rafale per month represents 7,000 jobs at Dassault, of course, but also within nearly 500 SMEs located throughout France. With the Greek and Egyptian orders, it is about the sustainability of thousands of French jobs until the end of 2025. In total, and accounting for only the only Rafale orders issued in 2021, the Ministry of Armed Forces provides nearly 10,000 jobs and provides as many families as possible for the next five years. Of course, the whole industrial fabric, in all regions of France, continues to benefit from orders under the military programming law passed over the last three years. I would like to draw your attention to a few examples: orders linked to the law of military programming generate in advanced sectors 12,000 direct industrial jobs in the Centre-Val de Loire, 27,000 in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, 18,000 in Brittany and up to 62000 in Île-de-France: they are all talented people involved, with a great deal of commitment, to deliver the best of the technology and know-how of today to our forces. And now I come to these: what are the concrete effects of the LPM on their daily lives? The first contact of a young soldier with his institution being accomplished first through his personal equipment, I will start by talking to you about the supply of equipment to the level of man. The Department has made considerable progress in this area. The final objective to date is an activity that is inseparable from the condition of a soldier: sport. Now, 100 per cent of the army's military are equipped with a new sport outfit. This is an important asset for their operational readiness. Similarly, 100% of the troops deployed in OPEX have the new generation F3 grid, which is fire-resistant, and in metropolitan France, 26500 soldiers of the army's FELIN units – infantryman with integrated equipment and links – are also equipped with this high-performance grid, which is 20% of the target set for 2025. Three-quarters of the land forces and more than one-third of the air and space forces are now equipped with new bulletproof vests. We have also reached 54% of the target on the delivery of the O-NYX night vision binoculars and, by the end of this year, we will have delivered all the 6500 pairs of these binoculars that make the difference on the ground. Finally, with regard to the HK416 rifles, which replace the FAMAS, more than 48,000 have already been delivered to the target of 117000 that we must reach by 2028, which means that one third of the army and 38% of the air and space forces are currently equipped with them. I was talking to you about a young soldier's first contact with his equipment: this is done for the first time at the corps store, at his regiment's counter or at the local support services branch. And, as you know, we have decided to revolutionize the support of the military, but also to facilitate their day-to-day work, whether it is clothing, administrative requests – such as the renewal of a SNCF card – or access to mail. Today, all these services are accessible within ATLAS spaces – access to support at all times, anywhere. Since 2017, 146 ATLAS spaces have been opened to serve close to 170,000 military and departmental officers, out of a total population of 268,000. This means that almost two-thirds of the military and departmental officers have ATLAS space at or near their workplaces. And 2021 will be the year of acceleration because we will open up some 40 additional ATLAS spaces. These spaces are a real success; Some are also considering opening up access to other administrative services of the State, such as the procedures relating to family allowance funds, in the way that is done in France services houses. The ATLAS space is the fruit of the family plan. I had made a simple commitment to the women and men of our defence, to change their daily lives. This commitment is being fulfilled. The family plan continues to deploy and adapt to the specifics of each regiment and base. One of the essential issues for the families of this ministry is the ability to move easily, whether for single geographicals or for their families who build their lives in the four corners of France, according to the changes. In March 2021, we handed over the one hundred and fifty thousandth SNCF family card. We also negotiated with Transavia the opening, in April 2021, of a low-cost direct airline between Toulon and Brest. For sailors' families, it is a revolution: it was a journey which, until then, was very long to make by train and even by plane, for lack of direct link. In terms of childcare solutions, which are a major concern for families where one of the spouses often has to be deployed four months a year, we have also made considerable progress. Since the beginning of the year, we have opened two crèches in Calvi and Mérignac, and we will soon open two new crèches in Cayenne and Mont-de-Marsan. The target of increasing the number of day-care places by 20% by 2022 has been achieved by the end of 2020. At the end of 2022, we will have far exceeded it, since a little over 1800 places in ministerial crèches will be proposed thanks to the opening of new establishments in Évreux, Creil, Cherbourg, Varces, Solenzara and Suippes. Finally, we have innovated: by June of this year, all departmental staff will have access to a home child care platform. Every time I travel to our forces, including in operation, I can see how much attention to military families is a factor in operational performance. It is, in my view, as important as capacity equipment. I come to a quick – I assure you – overview of the new generation of equipment, which is being deployed within our three armies. The Army already has 240 Griffon and is expected to receive an additional 137 this year. The first deployment in the Sahel of this new vehicle of the SCORPION programme – synergy of contact enhanced by versatility and infovalorisation – will take place this summer, for an operational job as early as autumn, in accordance with the objectives set. For its part, the national navy continues to equip itself with new combat vessels, including frigates, such as the FREMM – multi-mission frigate – Alsace, and renewed Atlantic 2 maritime patrol aircraft. As you also know, the Navy has received the Suffren, the first nuclear attack submarine of the next generation, which will be admitted to active service this year. Finally, the Air and Space Army continues to receive the renovated Mirage 2000s, the MRTT Phoenixs, three for the year 2021, as well as an additional A400M aircraft. In January, we also commissioned new user stations for the next generation of Syracuse 4 communication satellites. There's the equipment, of course, but there's also its availability: a Griffon that doesn't ride or a plane that doesn't take off, it's like an empty shell. I have therefore placed this issue at the heart of my action by embarking on major reforms of the maintenance in operational condition (MCO) in the three circles, the largest construction site being that of the MCO aeronautics. Progress is also significant in this area. For example, in 2017, only three A400M aircraft were available on average. Today, the average is six, or twice as many, and we have even seen daily peaks of availability at eleven aircraft ready to fly, which was absolutely unprecedented. Another example: in 2017, the average availability of the Caracals – one of the helicopters involved in the most sensitive missions of the Special Forces, but also to save people during storms or natural disasters, or to transport patients in resuscitation, as was the case in the context of the health crisis – did not exceed five aircraft. Today, more than eight are ready to take off every day. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] There is still a long way to go, but I have complete confidence in us to move faster and harder because, like you, every day, I see passionate teams, committed agents and soldiers determined to work hard to offer the French the highest level of protection. Together we write an important page in the history of our armies. The objectives set by the Military Programming Act are and will continue to be met. I know I can count on you to take care of it very closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u100	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u101	I regret, Madam Minister, that you did not address the question of the independence of France, which was also part of the subject of this monitoring session. The covid-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented economic crisis since 1929. This crisis affects companies in the defence industrial and technological base (BITD). You have already told us, and you have just said, that a monitoring and business support unit has been set up within the Ministry of Armed Forces; On the other hand, you have consistently supported, for several months – you have just done it again in the gallery – that no stimulus plan is needed in the field of defence because, in your opinion, the expenditure planned during the MPA vote is worth a stimulus plan. This reasoning is clever, but it is false. The planned expenditure to be incurred in a normal environment is not a stimulus plan. By definition, they have not been designed to counter the effects of the economic crisis, which is why sticking to the MPA in the current context is obviously a mistake, and you know that. You do not miss an opportunity to say how useful investment in the IBTD is for employment or to recall that the multiplier coefficient in this sector is the highest. We also agree that industries in this sector are likely to develop useful civilian goods. They could be involved, in one way or another, in the relocation and reindustrialization of the country; In short, to its independence. Then why not act in this direction with a real recovery plan? What's with the hindrances? Thus, the Tarbes Industry plant is at a standstill, while temporary nationalization would enable the business to be revived and the recovery organized. Instead of allowing some very large dividends to be paid to shareholders with the help they receive, it is time to help those who really need them. The whole company will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u102	The first aspect is the increasing dependence on private companies, particularly for the maintenance of our equipment in operational condition, with artificial targets – for example, 40% of industrial maintenance at the time of 2025 for the army. Not only is this dependent on private companies, but it is also not up to them: the workforce is less trained and less efficient than our state workers and technical civil servants; poor quality spare parts; increased controls; recurrent malpractice; increased risk of failure in operation. Timelines may be shorter and availability improved, but at what cost? We're talking about performance, but what performance is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u103	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u104	Forgive me for not sharing your point of view. Yes, the MPA is a stimulus plan on its own. Indeed, in keeping with the objectives set out in the military programming law, we have not only guaranteed the potential for orders but, as I had the opportunity to detail yesterday in committee, we have also, throughout 2020, managed all the appropriations agilely. As a result of the health crisis, some programmes have fallen behind: as you will see in committee work, there may be gaps here or there. If we had not acted, by the end of 2020, you would have found with despair, and I with you, that we did not implement all the appropriations provided for in the original finance law. We have therefore carried out massive redeployments of appropriations which would not have been consumed by the end of the year, to reallocate them to programmes which were able not only to move forward but to speed up. These redeployments of appropriations between different programmes amounted to several hundred million euros. By anticipating orders, we have also helped to support companies and their entire subcontracting chain: we have allowed the payment of advance payments, we have ensured the cash flow of these companies, but, above all, we have ensured visibility on the order books, decisive for the employees and employees of these companies. Finally, as I said, we, like other departments, have submitted calls for projects to obtain funding for our department, for example under the green transition component of the stimulus plan. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I mean, a word about Tarbes Industry. We have recently made an order that ensures the company's order book for ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u105	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u106	Questioning the independence of our defence, the subject of the debate, must not lead to concealing what I would call the scissor effect. Second aspect: dependence on the United States through NATO, an arch-bouted dominance of the United States over their industrial and commercial interests and making every effort to ensure that their captive arms market does not escape them. You said that yourself, Madam Minister: "We must not be naive: if the United States asks that the allies spend more, they would also like them to spend even more to buy American equipment. I would add that they accuse us of protectionism because we dare to speak of European defence policy, whereas a federal law in force since 1933 requires their government to buy on-line only goods produced on American soil. At the same time, they impose an integration of transatlantic defence by establishing standards, such as ITAR – international traffic in arms regulations – which lead to a preference for their own production. Private companies, NATO and the United States: isn't it time, minister, to loosen this double vice that weakens our independence, the subject of today's debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u107	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u108	First of all, with regard to the reform of the operational condition, you know the state of departure, which was deeply unsatisfactory – I took a few examples earlier. What we wanted to do was to empower the various stakeholders, who were not responsible for a large number of contracts, which meant that no one finally felt responsible for the problems we were encountering. By verticalizing these contracts, we identified a contractor, and it was the one who designed the system. It is therefore the guarantee of greater efficiency and we hand it in hand with those who, in our armies, are responsible for the maintenance of the materials. I had the opportunity like you to go to the AIA – an aeronautics workshop – in Clermont-Ferrand; I don't quite share the point of view that you defended, but I'm ready to go back...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u109	I'm not talking about AIA! I have an oral question on this subject without debate on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u110	So I was wrong. We'll talk about it again, all right. With regard to the United States, I agree with you and you have even quoted me. I said that Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the one that founded solidarity between allies, should not be transformed into "Article F-35", which would make American purchasing a kind of obligation. I have often said this under Mr Trump's presidency, and I can only welcome President Biden's very clear statement as soon as he took office that he saw Europeans as allies and partners. Having said that, I continue to believe that there is a need to strengthen the security of Europeans and that Europeans need to rely more and more on themselves, and that must be achieved through greater industrial and technological independence. I do not have any debate with you on this, I fully share this view.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u111	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u112	I consider that with the 2018 vote on the military programming law, we saved our military model, no more, no less.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u113	How modest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u114	Without this law, this complete model of army, which implies a power projection capability, would have collapsed: it is the strict truth. There is therefore a link between military programming law and national independence: this is an answer to the question asked earlier. This law is also the political signal that our armies need women and men to make it live. This is to end the deflation trajectory within the department. It is basically to give visibility to our armies, so perspectives. Could you, Madam Minister, remind the national representative how the LPM has helped to reduce France's capacity dependence on foreign military equipment, thus strengthening the independence of our nation? How will the future realization of the LPM, in the coming years, further enhance this phenomenon of empowerment and greater freedom of action?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u115	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u116	This is an extremely relevant and sensitive issue. I will start with the least positive elements and then explain how the LPM allows us to move forward. There are still a number of capacities on which European dependence is strong. Just take the example of drones, or strategic transportation capabilities. In short, there are a number of capabilities for which we remain dependent, particularly on the United States, but, if I may say so, we do something about it. There are areas in which our sovereignty is national. It remains so and we are working on it. First of all, I want to talk about deterrence. We have begun the realization of the third generation nuclear launcher submarine (SNLE), we are continuing the delivery of the next generation nuclear attack submarines, we are launching standard 4 of the Rafale, which also contributes to deterrence, and we have acquired, and continue to do so at an accelerated pace, refuelling aircraft, which are one of the conditions for carrying out the nuclear missions. There's finally the next-generation aircraft carrier. We have also worked in the area of intelligence, which is an area of national sovereignty in essence, and I indicated earlier that we intend to further strengthen what was already a priority of the MPA. Beyond that, it is well known that some of the issues relate to work between Europeans. This is the case with the major cooperation programmes on which we are currently invested: the new combat aircraft, the battle tank of the future, the MALE programme – medium altitude and long endurance – that is, the Eurodrone... All of this must allow us to reduce our dependence on companies like General Atomics, which now provides us with drones flying over Sahelian theatre, for example. We have not completed this work, and it is not an LPM alone that will be able to do it, but we are on track.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u117	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u118	In an increasingly upset world where technological loops are becoming shorter and shorter, it is necessary for our country to be at the forefront of innovation, for several major reasons: on the one hand, to strengthen France's strategic autonomy and sovereignty, on the other hand, to equip our armies with equipment to meet the demands of their missions and enable them to retain the advantage over our opponents. It is therefore essential to capture innovation quickly and effectively if we do not want others to do so in our place to ultimately sell these innovations to us or even use them against us. That is why the military programming law we passed in 2018 made innovation a top priority. In just three years, the Ministry of Armed Forces has created the Agency for Defence Innovation (AID), set up funds dedicated to innovation or developed many innovation laboratories within the armed forces. Moreover, in 2021, defence innovation will not be left behind, since almost 900 million euros are spent on it. As we know, innovation is also a matter of audacity. And of audacity, our SMEs do not miss it. So, minister, could you tell us how the territorial network of the Ministry of Armed Forces is structured to support, support and capture innovative projects carried out by the nugget SMEs of our country? On the other hand, what are the financial support schemes deployed by the Ministry to support our innovative SMEs, PMI and start-ups?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u119	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u120	Innovation is the key to success, the key to the operational superiority of our armies in the future. The risk we are running is precisely to miss out on essential innovations. As you know, innovation is unfolding in a different way today than it was twenty or thirty years ago, it is very much focused on digital, so on extremely short cycles, and it is necessary to be able to work together with innovators from different worlds. We are used to working on weapons programs spanning decades, and we need to integrate innovations that sometimes renew themselves on the scale of a few weeks or months. That is why we created the Defence Innovation Agency: to ensure the encounter between this innovation, which is that of the major arms manufacturers and the DGA – Directorate General of Armaments – and these new innovators. This requires a territorial grid, and this is why the IDA has created territorial hubs. We have seven territorialised centres which allow us to work, for example, in connection with professional associations or competitiveness poles, because it is this set that constitutes our BITD at the territorial level. With regard to the financing of SMEs, which is also essential, the Ministry of Armed Forces has given high priority to these enterprises through public procurement policies which allow them to pay, as the largest companies do, in 18 days, which is a record when we think of the deadlines which are generally those of the State: this was particularly valuable during this health crisis. We also have ASTRID-type financing schemes – accompaniment to defence research and innovation – or rapid programmes that are highly appreciated by SMEs. Finally, as you pointed out, 900 million euros of upstream research funding is spent in 2021 on innovation. And next year – there is no reason for us not to pursue our goals since we have been doing it for four years now – we will reach one billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u121	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u122	The covid-19 pandemic highlighted the fact that, very quickly, France could lack medicines such as anesthetics, sedatives, curares or certain antibiotics. This highlighted a problem of France's independence and sovereignty in this area. On the one hand, your ministry has strategic stocks of medicines managed by the armed forces and, on the other hand, the military pharmacy division must be able to produce drugs whose conventional supply chains can be broken. In the light of the year that has just passed, what consequences does the Ministry of Armed Forces draw to change its human and financial investments in terms of security and the production of strategic medicines in order to deal with crisis situations? Don't tell me that this is just a matter for the Ministry of Health, because a few months ago it was the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security that was looking for opiates in foreign markets to fill the French shortage. In fact, what do you think, Madam Minister, of a possible expansion of the list of strategic products in the defence code, because drugs, or even health equipment, are at least as important, from the point of view of our sovereignty, as petroleum products, which are on the current list? I am thinking, for example, of the lack of masks on the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier: this led you to have to repatriate the entire crew, some of which had contracted the covid. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u124	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u125	We must be humble, we have all learned a great deal from the health crisis that we have been through. In particular, we have learned a great deal about our dependencies, which have been found in many sectors. Medicines are one of them. We also experienced what it meant to be addicted to masks. You are referring to the early return of the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle in April of last year; There were no more masks on the aircraft carrier than there were elsewhere: everyone was looking for masks. That's why I asked for the aircraft carrier to return early, in order to limit the spread of the epidemic that was taking place on board. We learned a lot, I said, so that Charles de Gaulle, who went on a mission, is now in a very different health situation than a year ago. There are no covid cases on board. Examples of this kind are numerous. I am not saying that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to supply the Ministry of Armed Forces with health products; It is the responsibility of the military health service to order in sufficient quantity the products that appear necessary. And indeed, this pandemic has taught us that what is not possible must also be possible, because it can happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u126	What about the list? No enlargement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u127	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u128	Our country is going through an unprecedented health crisis. During this crisis, many local elected officials and observers called for a greater mobilization of the military health service to help our country cope. Our armies responded immediately as soon as they received instructions from the Government to mobilize. We all have in mind the assembly in a few days of the Mulhouse country hospital, which allowed to accommodate about fifty patients while the city's hospital center was completely saturated. We know the mobilization and effectiveness of our military to assist patient transfers when national solidarity has had to be established and when the regions least affected by the covid-19 were welcoming patients from saturation regions. Since the beginning of April, military hospitals have been fully mobilized in the vaccination campaign and allow 50,000 French people to be vaccinated every week. These elements show us that once again, every time our country, every time the French needed them, our armed forces responded immediately present and were able to mobilize to help our caregivers save lives. However, this crisis has also brought to the fore the lack of resources available to the military health service, the SSA, as a result of significant budget cuts and downsizing. Thus, the former law of military programming saw the abolition, between 2014 and 2019, of 1600 of the 16,000 staff that the SSA had at the beginning of the term of office of President Hollande. The military programming law that we passed at the beginning of the legislature put an end to these budget cuts, which I welcome, but the health crisis and especially the many OPEXs in which our country participates require a strengthened SSA. For example, while local and national elected officials requested the assistance of the army in coordinating the vaccination campaign, including its logistical part, it was realized that the means of the SSA did not allow this. In view of the start of the vaccination campaign, however, it is certain that our armies, thanks to their organisation and their sense of logistics, would have made it possible to go much faster and avoid many of the problems we have encountered. [[Patrick Hetzel applauds]] Therefore, in view of the threats we are facing on the international scene, of which we all know that they are multiple and particularly dangerous, also in view of the risk of the increasing outbreak of new epidemics, I would like to know, Madam Minister, whether you have planned to significantly strengthen the resources allocated to the SSA, beyond the budget extension planned this year, in order to restore stocks, including masks and breathers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u129	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u130	Thank you for reminding us of the contribution of our armies during the health crisis to help the French. Remember that the military health service was designed and designed to meet a primary and essential mission: to meet the needs of our soldiers, to ensure their health in a preventive manner, by organizing all necessary medical visits, but also to ensure the medicine of the front and the follow-up of the wounded. This is the mission of this service, which does not, however, exclude, when needs arise in the event of a crisis, from coming to the rescue of the French, which the SSA did during the health crisis. SSA accounts for only 1% of the public health system. As part of the vaccination campaign, which is a major national cause, the choice has therefore been made to rely on the backbone of the public health system, i.e. liberal doctors, pharmacies and now the large vaccination centres established through the mobilization of various doctors, nurses and first aid workers. So when we were asked to contribute to the vaccination campaign, either through the mobilization of our military training hospitals or by assisting in the organization of vaccination centres, we responded present. Of course, we could not have replaced the 1700 vaccination centres that were opened throughout the city. You recalled that the SSA had suffered severe deflations and a reduction in its resources. Together, we stopped the hemorrhaging under the latest military programming law. Since then, the SSA's resources have started to grow gradually, but last year, in order to learn the lessons of the health crisis, I wanted to see a change of pace and a return of oxygen to the SSA by increasing its staff and providing for a new investment plan, increased by 160 million euros. [[Mr. Hervé Berville applauds]] Finally, I want to stress that we are walking hand in hand with the public health system. In fact, the Laveran army training hospital will benefit from investments from the recovery plan, which will improve the framework in which our teams work and welcome the population of the northern districts of Marseille.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u131	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u132	Last night, in the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, we discussed at length the military programming law 2019-2025, which will continue to be strictly respected, as it has been for more than two years – I welcome this renewed commitment this evening, Minister. However, you also told us that, because of the events during the health crisis and, above all, the strategic developments in the current conflicts, the law of military programming had to be adjusted. Last Thursday, the Defence Ethics Committee, which I also welcome since 2020, at your initiative, gave its opinion on the potential adaptation of our weapons in future conflicts and delivered an opinion on the integration of autonomy into lethal weapons systems. In this opinion, the Defence Ethics Committee agrees with the Government on the need to renounce the use of fully autonomous lethal weapons systems, known as SALA, but recognizes the operational advantages of self-contained lethal weapons systems, known as SALIA, such as drones, and considers that "research in the fields of artificial defence intelligence and automation in weapons systems must continue". Last night, in committee, you said that investments would be devoted to research and development. So I come to my first question: will these investments concern research into artificial defence intelligence and the integration of automation into weapons systems such as drones? Our scientific and technical sovereignty and our ability to defend ourselves against autonomous drones are at stake here. Then, beyond the financial stakes, do you think that the Ministry of Armed Forces, in appropriating this new opinion, must evolve its doctrine on the integration of autonomy into SALIA? Moreover, would Parliament be consulted on the development of this doctrine if it were to take place? Finally, do you know, Madam Minister, whether an ethical debate on the integration of autonomy into weapons systems was held with our European counterparts in the framework of the Eurodrone programme?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u133	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u134	Thank you for raising the very important issue of ethics in the use of weapons systems, Mr Baudu. Through the development of artificial intelligence, which the Ministry of Armed Forces did not want to restrain, we felt the need to rely on the reflections of independent personalities gathered within the Defence Ethics Committee. To my knowledge, such a body does not exist in the defence ministries of other European countries. Clearly, the first reflections of the Defence Ethics Committee have focused on the lethal weapons systems and the level of automation they need to integrate. On this subject, I would like to reiterate, before the national representative, that we do not want to rely on totally autonomous systems to fire. However, a certain level of autonomy must be possible, as allowed by the SALIA, on which the Defence Ethics Committee expressed its support in its opinion. I therefore hope that the Ministry of Armed Forces will now clarify the doctrine of the use of these weapons systems. On such subjects, if we refuse in principle to explore fields of technological research, we risk jeopardizing the operational and technological superiority of our armies. Our mission is to guarantee it to the French. There is still a need for an appropriate framework to conduct this research with the serenity that is required, without crossing the ethical limits that we have set ourselves as a result of uncontrolled technological discovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u135	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u136	This afternoon, a staff member of the Chair of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission asked me about what I wanted to ask you about, Madam Minister. Since this was not a trapous exercise and I did not have the political will to question you – since I respect you – I forwarded my question to him. However, it is midnight twenty-five. And I can't help but wonder: while we are this week in a week of control, what are we really controlling tonight? Obviously, here we reach the limits of the exercise. The Minister of Armed Forces intervened for 45 minutes, which is her right, but parliamentarians only have two minutes to speak, on issues as essential as the independence of France and the law of military programming, for which they receive answers of only two minutes... We apparently did not find the right balance between the executive and the legislature. In my question, I wanted to talk about national sovereignty at the end of the health crisis and ask you, Madam Minister, about cyberattacks and the various defence budgets of European countries. I give it up: how can you answer me in two minutes on such important matters? On the other hand, I want to use my speaking time to call for a democratic and institutional start. We cannot continue to have an executive who, morning, noon and evening, forgets – that is the term – Parliament. Within a few months of an election deadline, we need to think together – because we are all Republicans – about our institutional order, failing which politics will take place elsewhere than in this Chamber. A remark to conclude. Let us not put Mr Le Drian in trouble: many members of the La République group have denounced the darkness that existed before 2017; Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, who was then Minister of Defence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u137	Would you like to answer, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u138	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u139	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u140	I would remind our colleague David Habib that the National Assembly decides on its own organization and that the Minister of Armed Forces is in no way responsible. I grant you that the weeks of control are not entirely satisfactory, but try to do as best we can with the tools we have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u141	Let's change them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u142	During the Gulf War, France suffered a certain strategic shock, its army having been designed to counter the Soviet forces and no longer really responding to the stakes of the time. Since then, our forces have been professionalized and organized, gradually shifting from a stock logic to a flow logic. The return of a major conflict is now a credible hypothesis. I therefore ask myself the question of the ability of our armies to cope with peaks of operational engagement. Recent tensions in eastern Ukraine have shown that Russia is capable of deploying 100,000 troops in a few weeks. Turkey, for its part, deployed 800,000 soldiers to Syria. However, in our operational contract, the assumption of major commitments is accompanied by the deployment of only 24,000 soldiers in six months. As we all know, deterrence does not cover all possible scenarios. While the military programming law is an extraordinary tool for re-launching, the means it provides are often captured by expensive programmes. Despite its ambition, in 2030 we will have fewer tanks, fewer aircraft and fewer boats. Thus, the national navy will have increased from 24 to 15 frigates between 2008 and 2030. Similarly, for the Air Force, which will see the number of aircraft falling from 420 to 185 over the same period. The Army regiments have five combat companies, but only one company in five could go into operation if necessary given the number of vehicles available. It is therefore my duty, Madam Minister, to ask you to make a special effort on the basic equipment of our army, particularly with regard to land mobility. What actions can you take to re-examine the initial efforts planned by the PEGP?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u143	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u144	When, three years ago, in this House, we laid the foundations of the military programming law, we were all very clear about the choices that guided us and the reasons for those choices. An important repair work was then needed in our armies after many years in which France and all the other countries had wished to "take the dividends of peace", as was said after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Before any new format could be mentioned, it was still necessary, within the existing format, to have equipment in working order and modernised. This was precisely the objective of this Military Programming Act. As we see today the possibility of a return to a high-intensity conflict, we must integrate this dimension into the preparation and training scenarios. This is what our three armies are working on. The Army recently conducted a high-intensity staff exercise in the United States with the United States and British armies; Air force and practical space in the same way high intensity training with other partners; The national navy is also involved in a wide range of interactions with high-level marines. As you can see, two aspects are at the heart of our action: on the one hand, to ensure the repair and modernization of what we have at our disposal, and on the other hand, to integrate into our planning scenarios the possibility of a high-intensity conflict, so to carry out exercises that will lead us to learn many lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u145	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u146	Madam Minister, on April 16th, Naval Group delivered to the National Navy the Air Defence Capacity Multi-Mission Frigate (FREMM DA) Alsace, which will replace the T70 Cassard anti-aircraft frigate, which was withdrawn from service in March 2019. Lorraine, the second FREMM DA, is due next year. In fact, Alsace, which is our seventh multi-mission frigate, will be able to counter a flight ban bubble of more than 100 kilometres radius using its thirty-two Aster missiles. While I welcome of course this new significant step in strengthening the operational capabilities of the national navy, I wonder, in view of the unbridled development of other military powers and the growing tensions in the Mediterranean, Europe, the Middle East and the Indo-Pacific zone, about the format that will be that of the Navy in 2030, as currently defined. Will France be able to control the sea, to have control over the flows that irrigate the world, to protect its EEZ, whose incredible potential we know, while engaging in high-intensity conflicts? In the face of these questions, the UDI-I group believes that it is important to increase the number of frigates that are really first, as well as their weapons. While I know that this wish is most certainly shared on several benches in this House, it is nevertheless a significant cost, but it is a life insurance that we cannot do without. So could you give us, Madam Minister, your opinion on this strategic thinking and indicate the costs, for example, of purchasing three additional frigates of the IDF type – a frigate of defence and intervention – and an increase in the offensive and defensive capabilities of the buildings we already have?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u147	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u148	You recalled the arrival of the very high-tech buildings, these multi-mission air defence frigates, which will complement our FREMM and bring them to the number of eight. Adding the five defence and intervention frigates that are destined to enter our fleet in the coming years, as well as our two other air defence frigates, brings the number of our first frigates to 15. If we were to do more, it would necessarily have a cost; This would be the result of political and strategic arbitrations that do not fall under this military programming law. This includes orders from several frigates, FREMMs that are in the process of delivery, of course, but also from the IDF. You may have noted this: I announced a few weeks ago that we were going to anticipate our IDF orders and thus I anticipated the order of the second and third frigates of defense and intervention. It must also be borne in mind that, being digital, these frigates have a new capacity, that of being able to benefit as new technologies become available without the structure of the ship itself having to be changed. We therefore also have technological capabilities here, but it is true that while the context of a few years ago could suffer from the fact that we use relatively light boats, the hardening we are currently facing is encouraging us to use more heavily armed and heavier ships.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u149	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u150	I am delighted to see our country, yet so torn, reassure itself and gather around the stakes of defence. This is indeed a very important element. Among the parameters that will weigh in future deterrents, I believe that the cohesion of peoples will become an essential element. From this point of view, the national and civic service could be the cement of this cohesion regained. When you introduced your universal service project, Minister, I had welcomed this initiative, and I have already proposed the reinstatement of conscription on several occasions. The universal service is run by the Ministry of Education; As for you, Minister, you quickly left the front on this subject. The Government is now proposing a two-week stay followed by a general interest mission of eighty-four hours. How could such a short period lead to greater cohesion and a greater sense of civic engagement among our young people? I think we need to think together – this is a huge project – about finding the means to return to civic and military service. The service for all, girls and boys, throughout a school year, would allow our young people to meet, in our suburbs, to meet with our cities and our countryside. How do you want to redress such a difficult situation if we do not put all of our young people at work together?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u151	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u152	The universal national service, as you have said, is a factor in the unity and cohesion of our nation. It is addressed to our young people who need commitment, are in search of meaning and often, more than others, want to express their solidarity. It's a very unifying project. We were a little broken in our momentum by the health crisis since it was in the summer of 2019 that we deployed the very first universal national service embryo in a very experimental way. A little less than 3000 young people have enjoyed a community life for 15 days, which is not common in the times running; They got to know each other, to appreciate each other and to live together. Other developments had been planned, but, as a result of the health crisis, unfortunately we have not been able to increase the number of young people participating in the universal national service in 2020. We are resuming the process and this year, in the summer, the scheme will be open to a larger number of young people. If the Ministry of the Armed Forces is not the prime contractor, it makes a major contribution; This national service is not military – it has never been its vocation – but my ministry is involved in structuring it through the facilitation of many sessions, and I think I can say that its module is among those that were most appreciated by the first generation who experienced the program. We will therefore continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u153	Madam Minister, I have to thank you. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-05-05-O1264.u154	Next meeting, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for an organic law establishing a citizen sponsorship procedure for presidential candidates; Proposal for a law to extend active solidarity income for young people aged 18 to 25; Proposal for a law on the limitation of the negative impact of advertising; Proposal for a law establishing the guarantee of employment by the employer State as a last resort; Proposal for a law to introduce a tax on crisis profitors; Proposal for a law to introduce full proportional representation in the general election; Proposal for a law establishing a common public domain in order to combat the precariousness of professionals in the arts and culture; Proposal for a law on the prohibition of "plant farms". The meeting is adjourned.
