ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u1	The Minister of the Interior informed the Speaker of the Assembly that the election of Ms. Samantha Cazebonne to the Senate had become final. Accordingly, pursuant to Article L.O. 137 of the electoral code, it is replaced until the renewal of the National Assembly in the fifth French constituency established outside France by Mr. Stéphane Vojetta, elected at the same time as it for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u2	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to protect farmers' remuneration (No 4511).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u3	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u4	The outcome of a text is also that of a form of collective adventure, an adventure that involves the actors of the field, farmers, processors and distributors, as well as Members and senators belonging to all the groups in our assemblies, and of course the Minister of Agriculture and Food, whose personal commitment I would like to acknowledge. This adventure will have lasted less than six months, from the tabling of my bill until the presentation of the conclusions, today, of the Joint Joint Committee; These short deadlines are a sign of the urgency and distress of an agricultural world under pressure. I will begin by recalling what lies at the heart of the work we have carried out, by reiterating what we owe to French farmers, to these women and men who feed our country, ensure our food sovereignty and shape our landscapes, to these women and men who work hard and passionately for often derisory wages and with too often dramatic social consequences. I will begin by reiterating our gratitude and by asserting to them that we will always fight, in this House, for their future, so that tomorrow no farmer will give way to despair, strangled by debt, so that tomorrow the young people who will succeed them will live decently in this job, both the most beautiful and the hardest of all, so that tomorrow, finally, agriculture will have the means to complete its agroecological transition and to continue to ensure to us all a food that is always safer, healthier and more sustainable. For the heart of our struggle, since the general states of food and the adoption of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, called EGALIM law, is the remuneration of farmers. It depends and will depend on everything else. The bill that we adopted at first reading this summer, unanimously, I would remind you, was then enriched by eighty-seven amendments in committee and fifty amendments in the sitting, from the various groups, which reflected our collective mobilization and commitment, as well as the excellent work of the text manager Sophie Beaudoin-Hubiere. In particular, we had endorsed several of the most important advances: the generalization of written agricultural contracts; automatic price revision and testing of a price tunnel; transparency and non-negotiability of agricultural raw materials; the establishment of an agricultural trade dispute resolution committee; Finally, the framework for the use of the representative symbols of France on packagings. In the interests of rebalancing the relationship between large-scale distribution and suppliers, we also adopted provisions on the supervision of distributor-branded products, known as MDDs, on line lines or on logistical penalties and non-discrimination in tariffs. While I welcome some of the progress of the Senate, whose work has made it possible to go even further, in particular on MDDs, logistical penalties, the renegotiation clause and labelling issues, it is a particularly amended text that was sent to us at the end of this first reading and on which the members of the Joint Joint Committee sought to agree. There were few points of divergence but strong consequences. It is therefore in a climate of demanding listening, mutual attention and constant dialogue, both among parliamentarians and with actors on the ground, that we have worked to achieve a balanced and consensual text. The main point of disagreement was on Article 2, in particular on the first option to ensure transparency of the costs of agricultural raw materials. This option of detailing the volume and value share of each agricultural raw material in the tariff had indeed been removed by the Senate. But we were absolutely committed to it, and I thank the members of the Joint Joint Committee for agreeing to include it in the text. For our part, we made concessions to satisfy the Senate, specifically on the issue of removing the so-called SRP+10 loss resale threshold – a loss resale threshold with a minimum margin of 10%. However, we were completely opposed, but the negotiations made it possible to arrive at a compromise solution which seems satisfactory to me because the new system is very framed, limited to certain products such as fruit and vegetables, and because the order can only be made at the reasoned request of the inter-industry concerned. In these circumstances, we accepted the proposal to draft the Senate rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] It is therefore a text drawn up in a spirit of consensus and unanimity that I propose to you today to adopt. I propose it to you with humility, but also with hope because I want to believe that it will contribute, in the years to come, to the guarantee of a fair remuneration for the work of farmers and because it demonstrates the ability of the elected representatives that we are, on all the benches of this assembly, to unite our forces to carry out this essential fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u5	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u6	It is with great pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, that I am before you this evening because, as you know, I have supported from the outset this bill tabled by your colleague Gregory Besson-Moreau, whose work I welcome on this very important subject for the future of agriculture, which is the remuneration of our farmers. And I am convinced that progress is great because this new law will allow agriculture to become again what it should always be: a profession of the future, a beautiful profession that not only allows to produce, maintain landscapes and cherish biodiversity, but also to make live men and women who every day rise early to feed the people of France. Progress is also great because the text will make it possible to really act on power relations by ensuring that the price goes forward and by providing transparency, so as to move from distrust to trust in trade relations. This text gives full meaning to parliamentary work in the service of the general interest. I would like to thank you sincerely for the work done from the EGALIM Act to the present day, through the assessment committee that your assembly had set up. Thank you for the work we have been able to do together. The discussions were sometimes somewhat bitter, I know, but what a fine democratic example such debates, although lively and passionate but conducted in a constructive and open spirit with regard to the cause of national interest, namely the remuneration of our farmers, have led to a unanimous vote in the Assembly and then unanimously in the Joint Joint Committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u8	...and I thank all those of you who participated in it, testimony of a real partnership work, as you pointed out, rapporteur. I can only satisfy myself with the main provisions of the text: they are in line with my views expressed from the outset on transparency, on multi-annual contracting, on the balance of power between the various links in the agri-food chain, especially now for the benefit of our farmers. The Joint Joint Committee has thus reintroduced the possibility for the supplier to supply the price of each agricultural raw material making up his product, together with more aggregated arrangements. Similarly, it eventually maintained the Dispute Resolution Committee. Finally, on the issue of the threshold, it agreed that the scope of article 2 could be restricted by decree in a range of 0 to 25 per cent. The text has also been enriched since its consideration in this Chamber when the Joint Joint Committee confirmed the developments proposed by the Senate on distributor's brands as well as on logistical penalties, subjects which have been cut off here. With regard to the difficult issue of the loss-resale threshold for fruit and vegetables, the article voted in the Senate was amended in the Joint Joint Committee so that this slight stifling to the increase in the RPS could only be allowed, if necessary, in the event of evidence that farmers' income was affected and that at the request of the inter-occupation. This means that, as we have always done since the beginning of the legislature, we will empower the actors within the inter-occupation, knowing that there are certainly producers, but also industrialists and distributors in many cases. For it is in no way a matter of doing "in place of", but "with", and relying on the responsibility of the first concerned. I can only subscribe to this method. Concerting, dialogue, then acting, that is my vision of things. Finally, the Senate has introduced provisions, confirmed in the Joint Joint Committee, on labelling, which will finally allow me to take measures that are dear to me, adopted here in June 2020 within the framework of the Act on the transparency of information on agricultural and food products: I am thinking of the obligation to indicate the origin of meat in canteens or in restaurants, one of my most important battles and that I intend to lead to the end because the consumer has the right to know where it comes from and that information on nutritional quality is part of what the consumer is entitled to expect. We even went, with the vote of an amendment by the Government in the Senate, to extend this obligation to prepared dishes. Indeed, as I usually say, if a French chicken has nothing to do with a Ukrainian chicken, a French nugget has nothing to do with a Ukrainian nugget either – and indeed for the same reasons. It was essential that this information also be passed on to the consumer. The Senate has also agreed to review the terms and conditions of its first draft of the labelling articles: I am thinking of the honey provision, which will finally allow the corresponding texts to be adopted quickly. I know that a number of senators were interested in some drafting arrangements, but it was not possible to maintain them, as the European Union had pointed out. However, I solemnly commit myself here to bringing this matter to the European level, as are all the subjects relating to the origin of the products. I note that the regulation on food information for consumers, says INCO, will be on the negotiating table next year in Brussels and that this will be an opportunity to come back to the subject. As I said recently, the rules of international trade are now outdated because they do not sufficiently take into account climate issues and the finite nature of the resource. The European rules on origin as well as on other aspects of international trade must continue to evolve, we must combat them. That we can ban a state from indicating the origin of honey in descending weight order on a label is totally incomprehensible to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u9	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u10	We now need to move quickly to implement before the next trade negotiations which are expected to take place this EGALIM 2 law, a text which, far from becoming more complex, is regulated. I will very soon gather the stakeholders to explain the text in detail and will consult as soon as possible the draft implementing decrees, in particular the one on the channels exempted from Article 2, because of their specificities, the one on the advanced dates of the obligation to contract, which I want as ambitious as possible because the contract is trust and, in some sectors, only the contract will allow to better structure the latter and to regain that value that we are all looking for – I had the opportunity to explain to myself at the top of the breeding yesterday – and not to forget the decree on the price tunnel, which is also very important. Finally, I know that training is already planned for companies, for the actors concerned. With my colleague Agnès Pannier-Runacher, we will not fail to convene the Trade Negotiations Monitoring Committee to clarify our control policy, because trust does not in any way exclude control,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u11	It's even better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u12	...which is very important. In conclusion, I believe that this is an innovative text – to take up the rapporteur's remarks – and even the founder of new partnerships. So we are at the end of the logic of the EGALIM law. I welcome our approach: we have seen that the EGALIM law is necessary, but not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u14	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There are few legislatures where the work is put back on the trade before it is finished, and it deserves to be applauded.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u15	It was the chronicle of an announced failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Thierry Benoit also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you who are making the law, this text abolishes what the law of modernization of the economy provided for on the subject of commercial relations and it reintroduces the provisions of the Galland law concerning them, going even further; It's all to your honor. I will simply end by thanking you for the quality of the work we have all been able to do together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u17	You're going to face the same setback!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u18	So don't vote the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u19	I'm not going to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u20	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u21	I hear the enthusiasm and satisfaction of the majority with the dialogue between the rapporteur and the minister. I would not like to temper it, we ourselves have participated in this dialogue in the most positive way possible in the debates on the EGALIM law, as in those concerning what has now been agreed to be called "EGALIM 2". However, experience shows that before 2018 – now 2021 – everything had started in 2016 with the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life, known as Sapin 2. There is a form of continuum, regulation and correction of this law and the harmful effects it has had on at least unfair competition. The efforts of the Sapin 2 law have been insufficient, as are those of the EGALIM law. It may be feared that those of the future EGALIM 2 law will not be enough either. Nevertheless, they represent real progress in terms of the mandatory nature of certain measures and the clarification of several compartments – I will not go back to that, the rapporteur has mentioned this very well. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the bill, as it did at first reading. However, since, realistically, I find that we are far from reversing the balance of power which allows the price to be built from production costs and which guarantees respect for the dignity of workers and the environment in the context of agroecology, we must establish the prospects which could be those of the presidential debate and of the next parliamentary term. We have an overview of reforms that can be set out in five points. Some will share it, others will not; Anyway, I want to give you our own analysis. First of all, we will have to go back to the law on the modernization of the economy. To our great surprise, the President of the Republic had announced this; What have we not done? I say this without aggression – during the previous legislature, we have spent five years in power without calling it into question – but we cannot, under the law of constant economic modernization, get out of a situation which some describe as oligopolistic and which creates structurally leonical relations between a handful of agro-industrialists and large distributors, and a dispersed and fragmented peasant world, regardless of its levels of consolidation. Our first proposal, therefore, is to reform the law on the modernization of the economy. The second is based on the work outlined in the Sapin 2 law and which we have taken up with Éric Andrieu in various fora which have not had enough echo in the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy: these are producer organisations. I deeply believe that it is a golden rule: who controls the volume does not control the price, but begins to control it. But we do not control volumes because everything is often based on illusions of conquest of international markets – I am thinking of the Asian illusion in the field of milk, where 9 out of 10 litres were produced and consumed on the European continent, or at the end of quotas, which could have been replaced by another system of regulation, and which caused prices to collapse to the benefit only of certain industrialists and large-scale distribution, but in any case not in favour of producers. This has accelerated a concentration movement that is sometimes contradictory to agroecology. There is, therefore, room for reflection on producer organisations that would control volumes and thus control prices. They could benefit from operational programmes in the European Union, as we have done in some parts of food production, which makes it possible to build better market orientations and to set prices taking into account soil-climate conditions, production density, in other words ecosystems in large regions. We could imagine four or five milk ponds, I won't decide for the rest. That is the spirit of these large producer organizations whose threshold could be set by law. Our third proposal is to put an end to unfair competition. We are pretty much in agreement: the treaties we have signed, including the last ones with Canada, are, whatever we have said and whatever we have dressed, old-generation treaties. Beyond a multilateral perspective indispensable for global food security, there is a need to build the prospects for more loyal trade. The very interesting work carried out by the Nicolas Hulot Foundation (FNH) and the National Bovine Federation (FNB) on mirror clauses has led to very innovative policy proposals. From civil society, we must take them into account and consider them as good news. I remain, ladies and gentlemen, the majority, Mr.Minister, very wary of internal competition, and I regret that neither producer organisations nor land reform have been able to bring an end to unfair competition in the peasant world. Finally, the last route I will quickly outline will be a taxonomy reform. The aim would be to review not only the high environmental value (HVE) and organic farming (AB), but also to integrate the value-sharing index between producers and consumers, as well as all the value-sharing between employees. Workers in the land, agri-food, slaughterhouses or cashiers: all those who sometimes earn 300 times less than those who run them deserve to be recognized as contributing to the food industry. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel also applauds]] I shall end by going back to the perspective opened by the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs: that of a fact-finding mission or, in any case, of an in-depth work on the cooperative world, which accounts for almost 40% of the agricultural trade. An ethical reform in favour of a new performance of the cooperative world is required as one of the major elements of the construction of prices from the bottom, going up the line. This is a model of a social market economy that could inspire a new alternative model to liberalism that does not feed the land, nor the people, nor the producers, nor all the workers of the earth. We have a lot of work to do and good prospects for debates and constructions in the service of our territories and our peasants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u22	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u23	After fruitful discussions in the Assembly and the Senate, the bill to protect farmers' remuneration was the subject of a joint and final committee. We conclude our examination of this text in order to ensure its rapid implementation, which is essential for the fate of our farmers. It is part of a broader approach and a struggle led from the beginning by the majority and the Government to strengthen our food sovereignty. The EGALIM law has been a major step forward. It has driven a new collective dynamic in order to incorporate new modes of negotiation into practice by reversing the construction of the price. On the other hand, it has not fully managed to better distribute the value along the food chain. This text is therefore very much expected by professionals in the sector and by the French, for whom the working conditions of farmers are very important. We will change the rules and move from trust to constraint, with mandatory contracting and prices based on cost-of-production indicators. In addition to the constraint, we bring more transparency, with the traceability of the price of the agricultural raw material from one end of the food chain. The Action Together Group welcomes many of the measures adopted to improve transparency between the players in the chain, particularly with regard to the distributor's brands, with the distributor's volume involvement in the contracts concluded with its suppliers. We also consider the experiment on "remunerascore" which will make cost transparency a reality. The line-to-line identification of remuneration or the experimentation of a clause called "price tunnel" are all contributions that will allow us to engage a new mechanics in commercial relations. With regard to the provisions for better communication on the cost of agricultural raw materials and on the origin of products, they seem to me to be particularly important in raising consumer awareness of fairer, direct and local consumption. However, the need for action at European level on product labelling must be stressed. Of course, this bill will not solve all the problems, but it brings new solutions. We must continue this work. I am thinking of the agricultural cooperatives and the mission launched by President Lescure that will continue our work on this topic. Let us not forget that the fate of farmers is also in our hands. It should be remembered that accessibility of prices should not be destructive of value and that eating well has a cost. We must always focus on quality and local production. Our farmers must be able to live in dignity if we wish to have new generations of farmers and farmers and continue to spread the French agricultural model in Europe. Generation renewal is our next challenge; This text is intended to make it possible to identify part of it. In conclusion, I would like to commend the rapporteur who has been working on this bill for several months in a trans-party spirit and who has made it possible to bring this text to fruition. This law, which will not really be an "EGALIM 2", must place trust at the heart of agricultural trade relations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Acting Together group has every confidence in you, Minister, to make the implementation of this law a success and a real change in the daily lives of farmers. We will vote with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u24	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u25	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see you again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u26	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u27	Dear Grégory Besson-Moreau, you have been the rapporteur of a beautiful bill. Everyone refers to what they feel or what they have experienced. I, for my part, brought my little green paper,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u28	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u29	...this is the report of the commission of inquiry on the situation and practices of the general distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers, which I had the pleasure of chairing in 2019 for six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u30	With brilliance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LT groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Whether we like it or not, everything stems from the parliamentary work of this committee of inquiry, which adopted this report unanimously by the groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u32	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u33	All the groups took part in this work. At the time, the report allowed us to target the projector to the large-scale distribution sector and purchasing plants, including international power plants. He had highlighted some of the practices on which several elected officials were concerned, including unfair de-references to industrialists, logistical penalties, systematic deflation negotiations and international services, some of which were real, but some of which were virtual. The committee of inquiry put forward these various elements and allowed Grégory Besson-Moreau to draft, I repeat, a fine bill, with the support and, let us say, the complicity of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. We can only rejoice because all this gives substance and echoes parliamentary work. The goal is a better sharing of value, from land to plate, from producer to consumer. For fifteen years, the law of economic modernization – at the time, I had taken care not to vote on it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u34	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u35	...I had abstained – stimulated the price war under the pretext of the sacrosanct purchasing power, with the result of hitting or even breaking the incomes of our farmers. If we ask the retail sector to lower prices, it knows how to do so. Today, what is being asked of him is not necessarily low prices, but responsible prices – we must empower the consumer, I am convinced. The text proposed to us was adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, in which I was able to participate as an alternate member. As the Minister and the rapporteur have pointed out, it deals with the issue of transparency, particularly as regards the share of agricultural products in the products under negotiation. It provides a tighter framework for penalties, including logistical penalties. It integrates distributor's marks within the scope of national trademarks, and establishes a dispute resolution committee. We are not naive, we Members. We are not correcting the EGALIM 1 law, but we are clarifying the strict aspects of trade negotiations, hoping that this will benefit farmers. Stakeholders need to take advantage of this. At the first link in the chain, between farmers and industrialists, a healthy negotiation must be conducted, and I have confidence. But above all, between industrialists and distribution, the large distribution sector plays the game, because in France, it is the large distribution sector and the purchasing centres that set the tone for trade negotiations. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM, LR, Dem, Active ens]] Mr Minister, French agriculture is evolving in the European Union and in the world. The work of the commission of inquiry into the practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers, which has been carried out in the French Parliament, must be conducted in the same way at European level. We need to look at the practices of purchasing centres hosted in Switzerland, Belgium or Luxembourg. Otherwise, we're going to disappoint quickly. I therefore hope that this law will bear fruit and that it will be beneficial in the coming negotiations. But I repeat, let us be lucid: agriculture lives in a European and global environment, and there is still work to be done by the minister. Of course, the UDI-I Group will vote on this fine bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u36	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u37	This EGALIM 2 text acknowledges the failure of the EGALIM 1 law, which we announced. This law, which is intended to provide a balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all, does not meet the main challenges of the agricultural sector. You do not provide any real guarantees for farmers' remuneration and you do not tackle the root of the problem, in particular international dumping inside and outside the European Union. The introduction of genuine ecological protectionism, which is necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum, is absent from this text. I would like to go back to the articles on price fixing and farmers' remuneration. Article 1 makes written and multi-year contracts the standard for contracts for the sale of agricultural products between a producer and his first buyer. The aim is to increase the visibility of producers rather than subject them to the versatility and volatility of distributors' purchases. At present, these are only tacit agreements, with little or no legal value, leading to discussions on lots or animals and systematic negotiations on price and volume, often at the expense of farmers. On paper, this proposal offers a good tool. But we regret that it does not prevent buying below production prices, and therefore selling at a loss for farmers. Article 1a states that producers and purchasers may agree on minimum and maximum price points. For our part, we had proposed floor prices, so this article seems to be moving in our direction. However, the text in no way ensures that the minimum threshold cannot be lower than the selling price at a loss. Thus, this "price tunnel" is likely to become a "gas tunnel" in view of the asymmetrical power ratio between farmers and buyers. This article therefore seems to us to be very inadequate. In Article 2, the aim of increasing the transparency of the purchase cost of agricultural raw materials by the industrialist seems to be a pious wish. You suggest that large-scale distribution will no longer have any influence on agricultural prices, but it will in fact allow it to no longer be held responsible for low prices for producers. Throughout the discussions on EGALIM 1 and 2, we have put forward a number of proposals for the proper remuneration of farmers. As far as prices are concerned, we would like to see minimum prices and an import tax in place for certain products. These taxes will be applied, if necessary, in order not to create distortions of competition between French products and products imported from countries with lower levels of pay for work. We propose to set up maximum multiplier coefficients, after consultation with interprofessional bodies. The aim will be to ensure fair remuneration for producers, to avoid lost sales and to limit the phenomena of capture of value added by intermediaries and by large distribution. We could also work for the regulation of agricultural markets, for certain products, through several measures. This would include the introduction of import protection, the guarantee of a minimum price for volumes capped per agricultural asset or the introduction of flexible production controls. This would concern, among other things, milk quotas and livestock for which we will limit areas and wine yields. With regard to farmers' own work, it is necessary to ensure the full application of national rules on remuneration for work, including social contributions, to all agricultural and agri-food workers. This will include the end of dumping and secondment work. We also want the creation of a network of short circuit consumer cooperatives and a plan for the development of producer cooperatives. This would be accompanied by recognition of the right of producer organisations to collectively negotiate contracts with the back of the contracts, concerning volumes and the selling price. [[Jean-Paul Lecoq and Alain Bruneel applaud]] Our ambition is to focus on ecological protectionism, the key to a virtuous agricultural model and an improvement in the living and living conditions of French farmers. If the stated objectives of this EGALIM 2 text are laudable, we regret that it lacks ambition. As a result, farmers' daily lives will not improve dramatically.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u38	And therefore? Will you vote the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u39	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u40	Today, almost one in three farmers earn less than 350 euros per month. When economic, work and family difficulties accumulate, life becomes a heavy burden. In the face of these difficulties, the question of fair remuneration has long been raised. As we said at first reading, the EGALIM law failed in its main objective: to better distribute value in order to enable farmers to have a decent income. After three years of application, the finding is unfortunately implacable. The trend has not been reversed: agricultural price deflation has continued. The expected improvement was not at the meeting. The question we have to ask ourselves is therefore simple: does this text make it possible to correct the mistakes of the past and to reverse a balance of power which is very favourable to purchasing centres in a globalised competition? At present, our farmers are under double pressure. Delivered to the arbitrage of world markets, they are only weakly protected from international competition by the common agricultural policy. Subject, moreover, to a large concentration of distribution, they do not manage to weigh in the trade negotiations – unsurprisingly, moreover, because what can 400,000 individual farmers, even grouped into producer organisations, do as opposed to four purchasing centres? For example, Lactalis has 17 producer organisations. How could these more or less competing organizations weigh on the big firm?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u41	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u42	The bill does not intend to change these essential parameters. Will it therefore be able to solve the problem of the remuneration of our farmers? I don't think so. However, this text contains positive measures, which have been largely maintained or even rewritten in the Joint Joint Committee. I am thinking in particular of the principle of a written contract, which should introduce greater visibility. In this connection, I welcome the fact that inter-occupational consultations are being held before any possible exemption to a particular sector can be granted. As for the pluriannuality of contracts, it also goes in the right direction, as it will provide stability for operators. Article 2, which obliges suppliers to indicate in their General Conditions of Sale (GTC) the share of agricultural raw materials in the volume and tariff of their food products, requires welcome transparency. Let us hope, however, that the non-negotiability of the raw materials it introduces will not be detrimental to processors. Some have told us of their fears of being caught up between farmers and large-scale distribution, and of raising the price paid to farmers. I remain convinced that the generalization of tripartite contracts would have been a major step forward to avoid this pitfall. In their absence, we must ensure that all the links in the chain seize the provisions of the text and strictly apply them. To this end, it is necessary that the controls of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) be fully operational as of the end of the year's trade negotiations. Another point of satisfaction is the maintenance of a stricter framework for contracts subject to distributor's marks. While this issue was a dead end to the original bill, I am pleased that the Senate's achievements have been preserved. This flourishing market should not remain an area of non-right where large distribution could continue with impunity to exert downward pressure on the prices paid to producers. Other articles, although more ancillary, still bring innovations that we expect the effects of. This is the case with the remuneration provided for in Article 2a. At a time when our citizens are increasingly concerned about the low remuneration of farmers, this experiment will provide them with important information to guide their purchases. The proposal will not solve the overall problem of farmers' remuneration, but it can contribute, in some respects, to rebalancing as much as possible. Some progress was required by trade unions to give farmers more weight in trade negotiations, although we can anticipate modest effects. [[Applause on the benches of groups LT, LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens, UDI-I]] However, despite the shortcomings and fears I have expressed, I would like to emphasize the desire to reform and improve existing arrangements, as well as the proper consideration of the Senate's contributions. Because we believe that it is better to take a small step in the right direction than to out-of-place, we will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u43	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I ask you to excuse the absence on the benches of our group of André Chassaigne, who was held at the top of the farm in Clermont-Ferrand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u45	We'd like to be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u46	Today we are invited to take a decision on the final drafting of a bill whose aim is to better protect farmers' remuneration. With this text, you implicitly admit the failure of the EGALIM law, which did not allow the promised rebalancing of the distribution of value added to the benefit of producers. Peasant income continued to deteriorate for the benefit of agro-industry and distribution. Today it is still weakened by rising production costs, due to the global rise in cereal prices and energy prices. The observation is implacable: over the past few weeks, the price of meat pigs from the farm has fallen by more than 20%, while the price of food served to them has increased by an average of 20%. In Europe, the decline in Chinese imports of pigmeat has caused prices to fall and distributors take advantage of it to pull prices down, even ruining farmers by short-term strategies. The same applies to cow's milk: over 12 months, prices from the farm fell by 1.8% in Brittany, 2.2% in the Hauts-de-France, 0.1% in Normandy, 0.6% in the Grand Est and 0.8% in the Pays de la Loire, according to figures made public by FranceAgriMer, the Institut de l'Héalisation et les chambres d'agriculture. Will the new version of the EGALIM law that we are considering this evening allow for real improvements? Our conviction is that this text is not going to solve much. Of course, the proposal contains some interesting measures such as the establishment of an agricultural trade dispute settlement committee or the removal of the price of agricultural raw materials from the framework of tariff negotiations between manufacturers and distributors. However, these advances are insufficient. Thus, removing the price of agricultural raw materials from the framework of tariff negotiations will not prevent industrialists from imposing low prices on their peasant suppliers in order to increase their margins. The text then pours into the utopia of believing that organized interprofessionals and private operators, gathered around a contract, could replace the state in order to protect the remuneration of peasant women and peasants. In this way, you are deadlocking over the effective strengthening of the inclusion of cost-of-production indicators in the contracts and the real construction of the price in front. There is talk of production indicators, but once again reference is made to inter-occupations, whereas a much more important role could be given to the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Marginals and to FranceAgriMer, the national establishment of agricultural and marine products. Finally, the scope of this text is far too narrow to open up new perspectives to the agricultural world. The regulation of production volumes at European level and the fight against unfair competition are decisive issues if we are to better protect peasant income and enable it to make significant progress. To prohibit the purchase of agricultural products below production costs in France, to extend the concept of unfairly low prices to imported products, to include peasant remuneration in the legislative definition of the cost of production are some of the avenues to be explored. We believe that allowing farmers to live decently is an essential lever for the development and vitality of our rural areas, as well as for the successful transition to a more environmentally friendly agriculture. We fear that in this regard your text will once again appear as a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u47	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u48	As we proceed with reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, I have a thought for all of you, of us, who fought – under this legislature, but also under previous legislatures – for farmers' income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u50	Today, at last, we are taking another step forward, and that is not nothing because we all know here that, in the agri-food sector, every step is taken on foot, every fight is won in high struggle. I do not think it is necessary to dwell too much on the content of this law. The previous speakers have dealt with this very much, we have discussed it at length in this Chamber last June, and the work of the CMP in recent days has been followed very closely. Although this law has been generally consensual – as evidenced by the agreement we have managed to reach – some points have been thoroughly discussed. Indeed, the Senate would have wanted to remove one of the options left to manufacturers and distributors in the context of the non-negotiability of agricultural raw materials, whereas this option was by far the most transparent. We managed to get her back. On the question of experimenting with the threshold of resale at a loss and the desire of some to remove it, we recognize that discussions with the Senate today lead us to what I think is the best possible drafting. Indeed, if it is an experiment within an experiment, what we propose today is to empower the actors without yielding anything from the ambitions of the EGALIM law. At the same time, while many questions are being asked about the application of this text to agricultural cooperatives, we made a commitment before the upper house to launch a fact-finding mission on this subject in the coming weeks. This mission has been carried out by the Bureau of the Committee on Economic Affairs and is expected to be launched in the coming days. Finally, I would like to welcome the constructive spirit that presided over our discussions on this bill, adopted unanimously at its first reading in the National Assembly, which is rare enough to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u52	I would like to thank all of you, on all sides, for the very constructive and, I believe, confident exchanges we have had. On the form, this text had the virtue to emphasize the fact that Parliament, far from being the recording chamber that some want to see there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u54	Of course it's a check-in room! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u55	[["Excellent! » on various benches]] ...may be at the initiative on major subjects. Not only because this law is a private member of Parliament – I would like to greet and congratulate my colleague Gregory Besson-Moreau, and to wink at Thierry Benoit –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u56	[[Smile]] It's harassment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u57	... but above all because this text has undergone substantial changes throughout its course. It is in particular in session, and thanks to your support, on all benches, that we have endorsed many of the flagship measures of this law: non-discrimination of tariffs, the "line line", the supervision of distributor brands or the testing of the price tunnel. This assembly was able to live up to the debate. Colleagues who, like me, are elected from rural and peri-urban constituencies, because they are in contact with farmers every day, measure the issues behind this text. After this satisfaction, I invite everyone to look over their shoulder. To whom should we remind again that this law was made in the wake of the EGALIM law, which we found did not produce all the expected effects on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u58	It's a failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u59	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But it's not a failure, it's not a failure for those who want to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u60	A little modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u61	For the EGALIM law, we had made the bet of trust; Perhaps it was a mistake, and today we need to fine-tune legislation by passing, as the minister wishes to remind us, through regulation, which is more binding. How can we ensure today that history will not repeat itself and that parliamentarians will not be obliged to return to the burden, with EGALIM 2, or even EGALIM 4?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u62	A flash of lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u63	I say this clearly and without delay: in order for history not to repeat itself, all actors must agree to seize the tools of this law, as well as those of the EGALIM law. I am of course thinking of the big distribution, but also of the industrialists, who will have to agree to play the game of the non-negotiability of the raw material. I am thinking of the interbranch, which must provide reliable and relevant indicators for all productions. I am also thinking of farmers, who must acquire the reflex to contract. I stress this last point because I know that some of them are still reluctant to do so. I've listened to a lot in the last few hours at the top of the farm; If this effort is not made by the actors, whatever toolbox we put at their disposal, then it is all the ambition for a better remuneration of the farmers that will not be realized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] I call on the whole sector to remember the speech of Rungis and the words of the President of the Republic. Four years later, they are still relevant: "If we are collectively responsible, you have your share of responsibility behind the reform that the Government is prepared to carry. [...] Everyone will have to make efforts, some on their margins, some on prices, and others on their collective organization [...]"
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u64	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u65	The health crisis has raised many issues that have sometimes been set aside or ignored for too long. One of the most flagrant is our relationship to food and to our farmers. The French have reminded us of this in recent months by showing both their commitment to "eating well", but also to their farmers, who, during this crisis, have mobilized heavily to feed the country and have shown that they are the guarantors of our food sovereignty. This recognition of the French towards their peasants contrasts with the agribashing theorized before the health crisis by a certain doctrine, expressed by some members of the political class and illustrated by statements or measures throwing reproach on an entire profession. The breeders we met yesterday and today at the top of the farm in Cournon did not forget that. Without our farmers, there will be no French food sovereignty. We therefore have a duty to be with them and to fight all the evils that affect the profession. Today, one third of farmers earn an AHR per month by working seven days a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u67	This fact obliges us to act. I am therefore pleased that the negotiations between the Assembly and the Senate have resulted in an agreement on this text. The channels were looking forward to it and we are at the rendezvous...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u68	All this is the law of modernization of the economy, the LME!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u69	... so that the new provisions can apply as soon as the next trade negotiations begin in a few months. With this text we have the possibility to get out of the pitfalls that led to the failure of EGALIM 1. Let's say it frankly, if we're together tonight, it's because the EGALIM text was a failure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u71	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...a failure that forced the majority to reshuffle the building, year after year, with bills of law. Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u72	Please, calm down! Mrs Dupont, Mrs Verdier-Jouclas, let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u73	Well done, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u74	We are still pleased that, finally, the necessary conditions for the construction of the price in advance will be met, so that every farmer can live in dignity from his work. This was not entirely won at the beginning of our debates, but I believe that, on this point, our group's requests were heard in the House, and I thank the Senate for its useful work in consolidating these conditions, in particular by ensuring the availability and use of agricultural indicators in the negotiations. But be careful, Minister, we must not let the breeders be disappointed again! Finally, we welcome the fact that the final link in the chain, the consumer, has not been completely forgotten. With the experiment of the remunerascore or the ban on abusively affixing the flag or the map of France, provisions which the Republicans had proposed in the debates, we bring first answers to enable the consumer to make an informed choice in the context of his purchasing behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u75	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u76	Having said that, we do not see the face, so this text does not regulate everything. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] Firstly, we are dealing here with only one aspect, of course essential: that of creating and sharing value throughout the chain. But if this is to be addressed, it is not enough to remedy all the ills that affect our agriculture: excess standards, lack of competitiveness, lack of renewal of generations, but also and above all unfair competition. As long as we do not put an end to this unfair competition – embodied, in particular, by so-called less-developed free trade treaties – our farmers will be at risk. Tomorrow, this competition will be expressed with the free trade agreement between the European Union and New Zealand; the day after tomorrow, with the agreement between the European Union and Australia, the latter being even more scandalous when we know how the Australians have recently treated France. While the mirror clauses would allow us to impose our health and environmental rules in force in the European Union on products imported into the European territory, we must first put an end to such negotiations, or at least put a moratorium on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u77	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u78	Secondly, the actors must be able to grasp the tools available in this text. No one will escape the fact that the agricultural trade dispute resolution committee that we are going to set up has some kind of complexity. The success of this text will require that the legislative impetus we wish to give today be well accompanied. Finally, while we welcome the best framework for MDD contracts, to which we were committed, which will help to ease the negotiating climate, one point deserves attention: we must monitor the long-term effects of these provisions on the purchasing power of our citizens, who take this category of products. These reservations, however, do not remove the need to change the EGALIM 1 system. I welcome the fact that the government majority finally had the foresight to resume its copy, three years later, even if it happens so close to major election deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u79	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u80	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Better late than never! [["Ah! » on many benches of the LaREM group]] The Republican Group will of course vote for this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u81	So close to an election deadline!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] ... without illusions, but for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u83	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u84	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group welcomes the agreement reached in CMP on this long-awaited proposal for a law by farmers. On this occasion, we would like to thank and congratulate rapporteur Grégory Besson-Moreau for his work and investment. While the EGALIM law of 2018 was able to provide answers in order to rebalance the trade relations between the agri-food players, we could not ignore any longer that some blocking points remain. Not all sectors have been able to benefit from the mechanisms created. Unfortunately, we are still in a balance of power, which is inversely proportional to the concentration of operators: the strongest and best organised, i.e. large distribution and large companies, are all too often the winners of the current system. Farmers, less well organised and less well equipped for negotiation, too often remain the weak link in the sector. For example, the 10% increase in the loss resale threshold would have resulted in approximately €550 million; However, this amount is far from having been paid in full to farmers. That is why this bill came at the right time to adapt certain measures and better achieve our objective: to enable farmers, by paying a fair price, to live from their work. In this respect, we welcome the various improvements voted by our chamber, such as the prohibition of tariff discrimination, the testing of a price tunnel in contracts between farmers and first purchasers, the obligation to mention each of the reciprocal obligations and their unit price within the contracts, and thus to bring the invoice in line with the services, the creation of a remuneration scheme, in order to provide the consumer with information on the conditions of remuneration of producers. If there were some disagreements between senators and MPs, we consider it urgent to vote on this text, and the agreement reached is welcome. With this final version, the bill puts in place mechanisms expected by the profession. First of all, the generalization of written and multi-annual contracts, and automatic price revision, were a recommendation that we urgently needed to put in place. This reverses the logic of contracts for the sale of agricultural products and the renegotiation of these because of the competitive environment will now be prohibited. Secondly, we welcome the agreement reached on Article 2 for greater transparency and non-negotiability on prices of agricultural raw materials in contracts between suppliers and producers. We welcome the fact that the first integrated option in the Assembly, which was offered to suppliers, has finally been restored to CMP. Thus, three options are now possible: first option, to display within the general conditions of sale the unit share of each agricultural raw material in the finished product, as a percentage of the volume and price of the supplier; second option, indicate in the GTCs the aggregate share of agricultural raw materials; third option, call on an independent third party at the end of the negotiations to certify that the share of tariff developments has not been that of changes in the price of agricultural raw materials. The integration of a general renegotiation clause is also good news. It can be activated according to the evolution of transport, energy and packaging prices, but also according to agricultural raw materials, in the event that the prices of upstream and downstream contracts have not been perfectly drafted. Another success of this agreement concerns the framework regime for food products sold under a distributor's brand name. Thus, an automatic price revision clause is introduced within MDD contracts, depending on the variation in the cost of raw materials borne by the manufacturer. In addition, the use of an independent third party will be the responsibility of the distributor, unless the distributor certifies that the manufacturer has improperly activated this automatic revision clause. Finally, the drafting resulting from the CMP concerning the establishment, by Article 3, of the Trade Dispute Settlement Committee has finally succeeded, so that the parties involved in the dispute can refer the case to the court in the form of interim orders, the aim being to get out of a dispute as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will of course vote for this text to rebalance trade relations in the agri-food sector, to defend our food sovereignty, to make the consumer an actor in trade balances, to support fair remuneration for farmers, but above all to make sure that the system is not right for their courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u85	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u86	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. Before I do so, I should like to inform you that, on the vote on the bill, I am seized by the La République en marche and the UDI group and independents of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 2 and 4, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u87	I have the honour to present five drafting or legal coordination amendments following the work of the CMP. [[Applause on many benches]] I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the working hours of both my ministry's teams and the administrators of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who have worked hard to ensure that all these arrangements can be put in place. I am not sure how useful it is to go into the details of these legal coordination amendments, which I invite you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u89	Favourable opinion on all these amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, UDI-I and LT groups]] I would also like to thank the parliamentarians on these benches. I also thank Diane Boucher, who looks at us on her screen having been unable to be present because she is waiting in a few weeks for a happy event. I have been working with her for three years, and we cannot deny the status of the National Assembly's administrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u90	I put to the vote the whole bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u91	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 79 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-06-O1004.u92	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for a law on more justice for persons with disabilities; Motion for a resolution to combat the disappearance of bees; Continuation of the discussion of the proposed law aimed at rationalizing the development of wind energy; Bill to create a student restaurant ticket; Motion for a resolution on the creation of a French sector for the production of health protection masks; Proposal for a law on the transfer of rights to the personal training account; Proposal for a law on the support of parents of children with serious illnesses. The meeting is adjourned.
