ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u1	The next item is the discussion of the draft law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age (No. 4187, 4245) and the draft organic law amending Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution (No. 4188 corrected, 4262). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u2	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u3	In recent years, the audiovisual and film sectors have undergone profound transformations and changes of all kinds: changes in usage, first of all, with the emergence of new modes of broadcasting – it is now possible to watch a film or a series whenever you want, wherever you want, on the screen of your phone, tablet, computer or television; Changes in the landscape, then, with the emergence of giant players, with considerable investment capacities and with the offer of globalised programs, installed outside our territory and within our regulatory perimeter. These changes increase the possibilities of access to works and facilitate their circulation among ever more numerous audiences; They represent opportunities for French creation, but also threats: they indeed weaken regulatory mechanisms originally designed for national operators offering a linear offer, and they risk breaking the historical balance between broadcasters, producers and authors. Such revolutions clearly reinforce the need for public intervention: it is vital for our audiovisual and film industries to have rules adapted to current changes and to a much more open and competitive economy. It is not a question of preserving models incompatible with the evolution of usages, but rather of strengthening the economic and creative competitiveness of a field of excellence where French talent is numerous, in order to maintain an industrial and cultural ambition in cinema and audiovisual. These new rules are in part the result of the profound reform of the mechanisms to support the financing of the creation that I have undertaken, with the ongoing revision of the decree on audiovisual on-demand media services (SMAD) and the decree on the contribution to the production of cinematographic and audiovisual works of terrestrial radio broadcasting services (so-called TNT decree), which set out the investment obligations in the production of televisions and platforms, and which have as a corollary an evolution of the chronology of the media. These rules will also flow from the bill before you. As you know, I fought to get a parliamentary slot in which to put the text on the agenda – and if I fought, it was because this project is decisive, ambitious and even vital for the audiovisual and cinema sectors. It was therefore essential that it be submitted to your review promptly. The bill provides concrete responses to three major issues in the audiovisual and film sectors. First of all, it strengthens the protection of the rights of authors, artists, producers, broadcasters and sports federations, emphasizing the fight against piracy. It thus provides for a blacklist of websites whose economic model is based on the massive exploitation of counterfeit content, and will make it possible to fight more effectively against so-called mirror sites, which illegally, wholly or substantially, reproduce the content of other sites. Very expected in the sports world, it introduces a specific innovative sports referral system, taking into account the urgency inherent in live audiovisual broadcasts of sporting events. It also commits to modernising regulation by merging the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA) and the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet (HADOPI) in the Autorité de régulation de la communication audiovisuel et numérique (ARCOM). The creation of a new regulator is indeed necessary to accommodate the gradual convergence of audiovisual and digital content: it will give us a competent body in the whole field of the regulation of audiovisual and digital content, whether it concerns the fight against piracy, the protection of minors or the defence of the public against online misinformation and hatred. Finally, the text will protect public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works, through a mechanism which will enable, in the event of the transfer of one of these works, verify that the buyer, even if it is not a producer established in France, presents all the guarantees for the exploitation of the work, thus seen by the public in France and abroad. We often talk about the protection of strategic assets in the face of the lust of foreign capital; The cultural sector, which contributes seven times as much as the automotive industry to France's GDP, must benefit from such protection: it is the meaning of Article 17, to which I am very attached and which will preserve our cultural sovereignty. Through its three main strands, the bill will provide the audiovisual and film sectors with modernized rules, extended to new actors and adapted to new uses. Some regretted the great law defended by my predecessor, whose examination was suspended by the health crisis; But the text that I am defending is just as ambitious as the one that was discussed in the Committee on Cultural Affairs a year ago. It is true that the provisions transposing the so-called Audiovisual Media Services (AMS) Directive, the Directive on Copyright and Related Rights in the Digital Single Market (DAMUN) and the so-called Cable and Satellite Directive, adopted by order through the enactment of the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law (SDDEU) last autumn, are being amended. The reform of the public audiovisual sector is not included either, but the strengthening of cooperation between the various companies was provided for in the contracts for objectives and means which I signed a few months ago. Thanks to the enrichments introduced by the Senate and then by the Cultural Affairs Committee of the National Assembly, most of the other topics covered by the 2020 bill are reflected in the current text. Beyond the three strands I mentioned, we will be discussing the modernisation of digital terrestrial television (TNT) – more ambitious than the one envisaged in 2020, since it also deals with the technical specification Hybrid broadcast broadcasting television, known as HBBTV – just as we will be dealing with relations between publishers and distributors, including access to data from the must-carry of the public audiovisual sector – i.e. the broadcasting obligations of the operators concerned – and with the resumption of local variations in France 3. We will also discuss anti-concentration rules, not only on radio, as in the 2020 bill, but also on local television; and finally the reform of support for creation, by reviewing the definition of independent audiovisual production. In the end, most of the issues that were addressed in the 2020 text are in the one that we are about to discuss, with the exception of a few small and less important provisions. It is therefore the great audiovisual law of the quinquennium that is submitted to you. It will make it possible to adapt once again the law of 30 September 1986 to the new economic realities and regulatory issues – if I say "again", it is that this law has been amended 90 times over the past 35 years. Thus, it is mainly through a series of reforms of varying magnitude, and not through a legislative big-bang involving a complete rewrite, that the 1986 law has been modernised so far – we sometimes forget it. However, the time for a legislative big-bang has not yet come. It is probably the prospect of decisions on the future of terrestrial radio broadcasting by 2030 – which are itself conditioned by international negotiations and the evolution of the consumption of the media by the French – that will call for a more extensive overhaul of the famous law of 30 September 1986 on freedom of communication. Before concluding, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs for the intensive dialogue we have had and for the constructive and quality work we have done, not to mention, of course, the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] I have explained to you the main objectives of the bill and the reasons why it is proposed to you by the Government: it provides concrete answers to three major issues in the fields of audiovisual communication, the protection of the rights of authors, artists, producers, broadcasters and sports federations, the organisation of regulation – which must be streamlined and modernised – and public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works, in a context where demand has never been so strong. It is an essential text for the defence of French creation. I welcome the broad consensus reached during its consideration in committee last week; If there are differences of course with some of you, I hope that it will bring us together at the end of our debates in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u4	Mrs Aurore Bergé, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u5	It is a long parliamentary work that leads to an essential discussion today. He was hired in 2018, at the request of the President of Cultural Affairs, through an information mission on a new regulation of audiovisual communication in the digital age, chaired by Pierre-Yves Bournazel and whose rapporteur I had the honour of being. Of the forty proposals we have made, some have already entered into force, and others will be if this text is adopted. Despite an interruption, this long parliamentary work continued through the transposition of European directives, which Parliament chose to intervene by order, considering that there was an urgent need to act for the financing of audiovisual and film production, in order to ensure equity between historical channels and new entrants. This work is now continuing in this text, which is not a small law, but an essential law for the future of the film and audiovisual sector. It is an ambitious text. I would like to give you some of his ambitions and convictions that have animated us – beliefs that are widely shared on the benches of the committee, and which I hope they will be in the Chamber. Our first ambition was to reaffirm, if only by respecting the parliamentary calendar, that the issues of cultural diversity and sovereignty were at the heart of the political agenda of the Government and the majority. We also wanted to say that we knew how to adapt our regulation to emerging threats and challenges. These ambitions translate into convictions. Thus, the fight against piracy remains essential: with ten million pirates each month, this scourge represents an annual loss of 1 billion euros for the sector – it is also a loss of creation. We also support the creation of ARCOM, a merger of the CSA and HADOPI, in order to make the public decision more effective. The sanctioning powers of this new authority will also be strengthened. The committee also wished to remove the reduction in the amount of penalties for failure to meet the funding obligation introduced by the Senate, to go back to the original text, which provides for extremely dissuasive sanctions. It's also about adapting our model when we think it's too old. We have thus raised the anti-concentration threshold for radios, bringing it from 150 to 160 million inhabitants: it is a new flexibility that we offer. Similarly, based on very precise studies by the Ministry of Culture, the rapporteurs and the Government will propose raising the anti-concentration threshold for local televisions from 12 million to 17 million inhabitants. Again, this is the demonstration that we are ready to adapt our legislative and regulatory framework. It is with the same conviction that the Committee on Cultural Affairs did not wish, again in a very collegial manner, to retain an amendment introduced by the Senate, allowing the legislator to take a position on a proposed merger between the two historical channels, TF1 and M6, by facilitating the renewal of their authorizations to be issued. Finally, our committee has strongly and unanimously reaffirmed the principle of independent production, to which I know that many colleagues are very attached. The amendments introduced by the Senate were quite different from what our commission proposed on this matter a year ago. To defend independent production is not to give in to any corporatism, it is to support a model that works, has proved its worth and continues to do it every day through our ability to export what makes our country's strength, its audiovisual creation in particular. It is this model that we must reaffirm and support, as we did in the Committee on Cultural Affairs: it is important for the National Assembly to keep to this point which we felt was essential. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LR]] This text, which may sometimes seem extremely technical or abrupt to whom is not exactly aware of these issues and does not handle them every day, speaks nevertheless of the daily life of the French, of the future of their television and cinema, of the future of creation. By adopting it we will reaffirm our cultural diversity and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u6	Sophie Mette, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u7	We are about to bring the last stone to a building that was built several years ago. Let us take stock after you, Madam Minister, of the considerable progress made over the past year: the transposition of the ADM directive first, thanks to which the platforms based abroad will be used very soon to better support French creation; then transposing the Copyright Directive, introducing new protections for authors in the era of content sharing platforms. So with this bill, we're finishing a cycle. The text contains major advances for the audiovisual and cinema sectors. The first obviously concerns the regulation of the audiovisual sector, through the creation of a new regulatory authority for audiovisual and digital communication resulting from the merger of the CSA and HADOPI. This merger, long expected by the sector and by both authorities, will allow for a more coherent regulation of the whole value chain, from authors to distributors of audiovisual services. The new regulator will have enhanced powers in the fight against piracy. In 2020, 12 million Internet users illegally consumed cultural and sports content online. In total, the loss of profits, both for broadcasters and for producers, sports clubs or the State, is estimated at EUR 1 billion per year. In the face of this scourge, the public authorities need new tools. The peer-to-peer, which was at the end of the 2000s the main mode of piracy, is now largely minority over streaming and direct download. These new practices are more difficult to combat and require new tools. It is precisely these tools that the bill brings to ARCOM. I am thinking in particular of the strengthening of the powers of sworn agents, the creation of a public blacklist of massively infringing sites or the dynamic injunction system for combating mirror sites, whether sports or cultural content. Thanks to the improvements it has undergone since the first draft of the audiovisual law, this system now presents all the guarantees of solidity and efficiency. I am also thinking of ARCOM's role as an intermediary between rights holders and Internet actors. The Senate had entrusted the Authority with criminal transaction power over Internet users practising peer-to-peer piracy. Our committee has decided to reconsider this allocation. It is indeed likely that today's minority peer-to-peer practice will continue to lose ground in the coming years, as it already loses each year. We therefore need to focus our efforts and the human resources of ARCOM on streaming and direct download. The text contains another step forward in the protection of our audiovisual and cinematographic catalogues. While catalogue movements are inevitable on a global scale, it is our responsibility to ensure that these sales are not accompanied by a loss of access by the French public to the flagship works of our heritage. The new advance notification procedure will considerably strengthen our arsenal in this area. On my initiative, the committee has clarified certain elements of this procedure in order to improve the conditions for French producers without removing anything from its effectiveness. The Senate had added provisions concerning the remuneration of graphic artists and press titles when their production is taken over by search engines and online aggregators. While fully sharing the objective of these provisions, the Commission has chosen to delete them in order not to disturb the agreements already concluded by the graphic artists or the ongoing negotiations with the press publishers. Google has been particularly cooperative with graphic artists, agreeing to a satisfactory agreement for all parties. I would like to welcome their action and hope that an agreement will also be reached with the press. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I would especially like to thank the Minister for her commitment, which has allowed this text to be submitted to us this evening and that we are working on it in a positive way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u8	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u9	We are therefore considering the draft ordinary law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age, an essential bill, in particular in that it carries out a long-awaited merger between the CSA and HADOPI. Through this bill, the Government has embarked on a reform aimed at accompanying Internet users' digital practices towards responsible uses, particularly with regard to intellectual property rules. I will not go back to the details of the provisions of this text, the issues of which have already been clearly and brilliantly set out by the minister and the rapporteurs. I would simply remind you that this bill is structured around three main issues: merging the CSA and HADOPI into a single body, the Audiovisual and Digital Communications Regulatory Authority, and strengthening the fight against Internet piracy; Second, to strengthen the tasks of the new regulator by strengthening its supervisory powers in relation to those currently available to the APF; Third, to protect public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works in international catalogue acquisition operations. It is indeed a matter of creating a new independent authority, adapted to today's world and which meets the current needs of regulation: in addition to rationalizing administrative and logistical resources, the creation of ARCOM must allow us to take into account the growing proximity between these two authorities and to rely fully on the synergy of the skills and know-how of their agents. Indeed, the current regulatory framework is too fragmented between many actors and authorities subject to sectoral logics. As we face new challenges related to the development and power of the platforms and the new uses associated with them, the creation of ARCOM will address them. This merger is also part of an initiative to strengthen the regulation of digital and content, initiated by the law on the fight against the manipulation of information, known as fake news, and continued at this very moment by the examination by the Parliament of the bill confirming the respect of the principles of the Republic, which anticipates the new frameworks and fields of regulation proposed by the European Commission through the Digital Services Act. ARCOM should be entrusted in the near future with extensive powers to regulate digital content and actors. For the time being, and with regard to the text that I have the honour to report on behalf of the Law Committee, the organic bill is bringing its small stone to the building, no less essential since it is a matter of ensuring that the presidency of this new independent authority will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. As a reminder, article 13 of the Constitution makes certain appointments made by the President of the Republic for the opinion of the parliamentary committees "because of their importance for the guarantee of the rights and freedoms or the economic and social life of the nation". This procedure, which is one of the innovations resulting from the 2008 constitutional reform, allows for greater transparency in the appointments made by the President of the Republic by giving Parliament the means to control them and even to oppose them by expressing its opinion clearly. This procedure has become important in the institutional functioning of the assemblies and in their relationship with the executive branch. Furthermore, it reinforces the legitimacy of the appointees, whose public hearing sheds light on the professional and personal background and ensures that their skills are appropriate to the function concerned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] It therefore seems natural that the appointment of the President of ARCOM should be subject to our control, as is the appointment of the President of the CSA. I will therefore propose that you adopt this organic bill without amendment, with the exception of the few editorial amendments and the coordination amendment adopted in the Law Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u10	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u11	As we begin our consideration of this text at the sitting, allow me to commend the work done since 2017 by all members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. I am thinking first of course of the information mission for a new regulation of audiovisual communication in the digital age, which, chaired by Pierre-Yves Bournazel and reported by Mrs Bergé, was, I must say, the main framework for our reflection. I also welcome the quality of your work summarized in the report presented in October 2018. Our committee has also launched work in more specific areas. Here I would like to thank Florence Provendier and Michèle Victory for their work on quotas for French-language songs on radio, as well as Pascal Bois and Constance Le Grip for their work on the status of authors. For their work on the youth offer of the public audiovisual industry, allow me to greet Béatrice Piron and Maxime Minot. Let me also welcome the work under way, under the leadership of Cédric Roussel and Régis Juanico, on the rights of audiovisual broadcasting of sporting events, which I am sure will be of great importance in the coming months in that it will allow us to see a little clearer about what is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens. Finally, let me welcome the budgetary opinions issued since 2017, which are a significant part of our monitoring activity. All this work has led us to share, on all these benches, the observation of a necessary adaptation of the framework of an audiovisual ecosystem undergoing a profound and rapid change. The dynamics of the developments brought about by the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age will have been undermined by the occurrence of the covid-19, in March 2020, until in the chamber of our commission. In a way, the unfinished course of this bill will have made it possible to go to the essence and effectiveness of this new text and earlier in the provisions made by order concerning the DAMUN directive, the directive establishing rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online transmissions of television and radio broadcasting organizations and retransmissions (CABSAT 2) and the SMA directive, incorporated in the DDADE law of 3 December 2020. It was absolutely necessary to modernise the regulator charged, as the texts voted since 2017, to ensure the application of increasingly numerous rules. Other points of the reform, such as the rapprochement of the governance of France Télévisions and Radio France that you mentioned, Madam Minister, have been committed through multi-annual contracts of objectives and means, in just as concrete a way, after an argumented opinion of our committee. Here I would like to pay tribute to the work of Florence Provender. The maintenance of France 4 and the sustainability of Culturebox on the same channel were confirmed by a decree published last Saturday. This is a reason for rejoicing on these benches and proof of our collective pragmatism. This bill brings additional bricks to the building we are building. I would like, Madam Minister Roselyne Bachelot, to sincerely welcome your determination to see the audiovisual subject come back to Parliament, despite a parliamentary agenda overburdened by the health crisis. We are witnessing the completion of the work undertaken in their time by Françoise Nyssen and Franck Riester. It concerned the fulfilment of the commitments of the President of the Republic and the respect of all actors in the sector who had been waiting for such arrangements for years. Part of the work remains to be done. You referred to the ninety successive amendments to the Act of 30 September 1986. National representation and the Government may one day address together a codification that I would like to see. What happens to the regulator in this bill? Several texts have, in a way, pushed the walls by extending the competence of the CSA to the regulation of online content: the law against the manipulation of information; the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism; The law to protect victims of domestic violence, which also provides for the regulation of access to pornography for younger children; the Act to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms, i.e. children influencers. The advent of a single regulator of audiovisual and digital communications, which would bring together the CSA and HADOPI, reflects the recognition of the fluidity of communications and the need for a comprehensive approach to the value chain. However, we will have to remember this extension of the powers of the future ARCOM in the consideration of the 2022 Finance Bill. Our approach to online counterfeiting is also evolving. When HADOPI was created, the bulk of piracy took the form of peer-to-peer download. This mode of access to works is now largely minority in relation to streaming. The ambition remains the same: to defend intellectual property law. Finally, the text introduces protection of public access to French works in the face of international catalogue acquisition operations. This is a novelty compared to the 2020 text, to which I am particularly committed. This protection expected by the actors concerned in the face of the globalisation of the sector is a question of survival for our model of creation. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I could say in the time given to me. I wish to do a good job, which I hope will lead to fruitful collaboration with honourable senators. As you have said, Madam Minister, this text is indeed one that will bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u12	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u13	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Michel Larive has the floor for a period of not more than 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u14	Madam Minister, last year, your predecessor, Franck Riester, introduced a bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. We debated it in committee, and then the health crisis interrupted parliamentary work. The Government – which you now represent, Madam Minister – has chosen not to put this text back on the agenda of the National Assembly. You have decided to legislate by order on a large part of the measures contained therein. This is the case of articles that we have opposed alongside associations such as La Quadrature du net, which attack freedom of expression on the Internet by introducing widespread monitoring of content without any effective measures against censorship of political organisations, trade unions, associations, artists or ordinary citizens for years. Last week, we proposed new amendments to ensure freedom of expression on the Internet and on social networks. Once again, they were ruled out. Let me remind you of some recent cases of censorship. On 1 June 2021, the French Communist Party denounced Facebook's censorship of one of its pages during an election period. Three days later, on 4 June 2021, the Fakir newspaper was censored by the same platform: any publication referring to the newspaper's website was blocked and the old posts were deleted without any explanation. Censorship has been exercised. Last January, Twitter suspended several accounts of feminist activists who dared to publish and relay the following question: "How do we get men to stop raping? » A few days later, Twitter explained that it had increased its "use of machine learning and automation to take more action on potentially abusive and manipulatory content." That is exactly what we denounced in March 2020, and again last week. A human check must always take place before a content is deleted. The European Commission is moving in our direction. On 4 June 2021, in its guidelines to assist Member States in transposing Article 17 of the Copyright Directive, it restricts automatic blocking "to manifestly unlawful content indicated by a rightholder", with other content to be placed online and then examined by a human being. You leave these platforms – Twitter, Facebook, YouTube – without any counter-power. They alone decide what may or may not be published and communicated. They alone decide how to monitor content. They alone decide to monitor all our behaviors, to collect our personal information, our tastes, our political and religious opinions, our consumption habits, to store all this data and monetize it. They make money by watching us. In reality, these large platforms are large, poorly regulated advertising spaces. Last year, you also rejected the amendments that we tabled to protect our children from injunctions to consume more and more, to warn about the uses of these platforms that encourage junk food and products that pollute the most and disrupt our climate. More than half of our amendments – twenty-three out of forty-five – were found inadmissible in committee. The debates are sloppy in one day; You are shipping this bill without being up to the stakes. Another subject, and not least, to have disappeared from this bill: the public audiovisual sector. This project is still in set-aside, reflecting the Government's total lack of ambition in this area, as evidenced every year by the decline in the budget for the public service of the audiovisual sector: it was 190 million euros between 2018 and 2022 – 160 million euros for France Télévisions and 20 million euros for Radio France. What remains of this bill? The merger of the APF and HADOPI within ARCOM. Let's just take a look at the HADOPI's record. In 2019, it sent 830,000 warnings – a figure that has never been so weak – not to blame Internet users for hacking cultural property, but for failing to properly protect their network. This system is completely hypocritical: it is legal to subscribe to a virtual private network (VPN) which allows to hide its IP address; The network is then protected, and it is beyond the control of HADOPI. This makes no sense, especially since usages have changed: illegal streaming has replaced download; the legal offer has developed. HADOPI has proved to be both costly and inefficient: it has cost 80 million euros and allowed 87000 euros of revenue to be raised through fines. The task of protecting intellectual property must again be entrusted to the judiciary rather than to an administrative authority, as well as to all matters relating to freedom of expression. Rather than spending millions on an ineffective policy of repression of Internet users, we must work to develop the legal offer, creating a new public service of the Internet and a public platform of legal online offer of music, films and cultural content. As for the APF, reform of its governance is essential. Opposed to the appointment of its President by the President of the Republic, we proposed that it be elected by the Cultural Affairs Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate. This reform has been requested for years by parliamentarians on all sides. Let me quote from some of the many articles about the dismissal of Mathieu Gallet from the presidency of Radio France by CSA in 2018, at a time when Ms Nyssen was Minister of Culture. On January 31, 2018, Ouest-France questioned: "Mathieu Gallet dismissed: Is the CSA under orders? » The next day, Libération was entitled: "The eviction of Gallet revives the old debate on the independence of the CSA. On February 1, 2018, Thomas Snégaroff, journalist and historian, concluded his column on France Info: "Real independence or only formal independence? Almost thirty years later, this fundamental issue for our democracy is clearly not yet resolved. It is time for this to change. We also proposed that two representatives of users sit on the APF. These two measures would bring both guarantees of independence and a democratic demand. According to a FIFG survey published last Friday, 55% of French people have a strong sense of mistrust of the media. The two feelings that follow are anger and disgust, which may be an issue for you. Interest, on the other hand, is only in fourth place. And 67% of French people say they doubt the truthfulness of the information they receive from a well-known media outlet. A previous study, published in January 2021, indicated that 63% of French people believe that journalists do not resist pressure from political parties and power, and 59% that they do not resist pressure from money. They therefore call into question both the credibility of the media and the independence of journalists. We proposed the creation of an ethics council, composed of representatives of media users and representatives of journalists, including the precarious and the freelancers. This ethics council would give citizens the opportunity to have recourse to enforce their right to objective information. You have ruled our amendment inadmissible. This question of the independence of the media from the money powers is crucial, while there are ever more important phenomena of concentration. With the merger of the M6 and TF1 groups, there is a gradual control of TF1 over TNT. The channel has grown from one channel on thirteen free channels to more than one third of the current channels, nine out of twenty-five. Let me remind you of the programme of the National Council of Resistance, adopted in 1944 and originally entitled "Happy Days. He affirms that the measures to be applied are aimed, inter alia, at ensuring "the full freedom of thought, conscience and expression; freedom of the press, its honour and independence from the state, money powers and foreign influences; freedom of association, assembly and demonstration". The nine billionaires who share 90% of our media are committed not only to economic interest or passion for journalism, but to making it a tool of political propaganda. The Bolloré group's example is emblematic of these drifts: the Canal + group holds, in addition to the eponymous channel, three free channels – C8, CNews and CStar. CNews is also one of the first daily newspapers in France with nearly 900000 copies distributed every day. Journalists from Europe 1 radio station are currently on strike to denounce "an authoritarian and inadequate management, which is getting tougher as Vincent Bolloré's grip becomes clearer". Under no circumstances do they want to be associated with the editorial line of CNews that drifts towards the promotion of far-right theses. Their fear can be understood when we see that Mr Louis de Raguenel, former of current Values, has been appointed head of the political service of Europe 1. Vincent Bolloré and his group are not passionate about journalism. They regularly attacked – or even fired – journalists who dared to contradict them. In January 2018, twenty-six associations, twenty-three media and many journalists published a forum entitled "Confronting Bolloré's Prosecution-Bâillons: We Will Not Shut Up! They denounced the barriers to press freedom that the Bolloré group has become customary in the past. As the authors of this forum point out, "about 50 journalists, lawyers, photographers, NGO officials and media directors were targeted by Vincent Bolloré and his partners." They believe that "these systematic prosecutions are aimed at exerting pressure, financially weakening, isolating any journalist, whistleblower or organisation that would highlight the questionable activities and practices of economic giants such as the Bolloré Group" and call for reforms to "strengthen freedom of expression". This is what we have proposed to do by prohibiting the same person from controlling both a television channel, a radio station and a publication of political and general information. Similarly, we want, as has been done elsewhere, the large media groups concentrated in the hands of a few billionaires to be dismantled: we propose that it is impossible for a group to control several television channels. Finally, the third part of this anti-concentration law, whose first milestones we set: the same group should not be able to own both the network and the distributed object. The same actor cannot be a provider of internet access or TV box while controlling TV channels. The Senate, which is not subject to censorship by the presidential majority, has introduced two articles, 10 sexies and 10 septies, which provide for raising the concentration limits of the media. The only measure on which we can debate is therefore to increase the concentration of the sector! Once again, this government chooses to look elsewhere when it comes to defending the general interest, to be on the side of citizens and freedom of information, and finally to guarantee pluralism in the media. Another point is that the Government intends to combat sports piracy more effectively. But, once again, it seeks to defend the rights of the shareholders of the channels that own the broadcasting rights without ever wondering whether it would be in the general interest...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u15	To hack?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u16	[[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] ... to allow everyone, without conditions of resources, to access the retransmissions of sports competitions. Article 9 bis, also introduced by the Senate, allowed individual disciplines to be included among events of major importance that cannot be broadcast exclusively on pay channels. For example, it would have included competitions such as the Vendée Globe, the America Cup, or the world judo championships, which could finally have been seen free of charge. On June 9, the French judokate Clarisse Agbegnenou was the world champion for the fifth time. To be able to follow this competition, however, it was necessary to subscribe to the Eurosport channel. Of course, article 9 bis was deleted by the commission, with the blessing of the Government. The Senate also proposed, through Article 9b, to impose a balanced representation between women's and men's sport. For example, this would have allowed for the retransmission of the Tour de France féminine, which will take place next year, but the Government preferred to meet this requirement by amending article 10 bis, and only the Tour de France masculine will be broadcast on a free channel – as it is every year. There are two final reasons for this motion of rejection. The first concerns the ecological bifurcation which must be at the heart of any political project. None of this in the text: whether it is the reduction of digital pollution, the respect of the objectives of the national low-carbon strategy or the planned obsolescence of TV sets and decoders induced by the transition to ultra-high definition, the rapporteur refers to the debate on the bill to reduce the environmental footprint of digital technology in France – and so much so if it does not address issues specific to the CSA's missions or the transition to ultra-high definition! The last point concerns the right of overseas residents to have access to all TNT channels and to an Internet connection at the same price as in hexagon. The amendment tabled to that effect was censored. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] As you can see, we are defending another political project: a political project that places in its heart the general interest and not that of a few; a political project with requirements for transparency, democracy and pluralism, when you do not provide any guarantees and refuse any reform of the APF; a political project that preserves freedom of expression and information, when you let censorship reign and refuse to entrust that power to the judicial judge to leave it in the hands of private companies; a political project that gives the same rights to the inhabitants of the overseas countries and territories and to those living in the hexagon; a political project that allows you to share all the major sports, women's, men's and mandisport competitions, when you reserve them to those who have the financial means to cumulate the subscriptions with the major private groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u17	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will not give a full answer to Mr.Larive, because the speech he has just made, although very interesting, is almost irrelevant to the bill we are about to consider. I therefore propose that you reject this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u19	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u20	We come to the explanations of vote on this motion of rejection. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u21	We will, of course, reject this motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Larive, you are a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and we are well aware of your positions, but, as the Minister has pointed out, you are not talking about the text or the progress it entails, in particular the creation of ARCOM, which will make it possible to strengthen the regulation of the sector. You do not mention the support for independent production or the protection of copyrights and those of artists, producers and broadcasters. This text is a major and long-awaited step forward. You will have an opportunity to defend your amendments during the debates, but we must move forward now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u22	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u23	This text, let's say, has lost its panache and strength as time has passed: we are far from the law promised by candidate Macron during the 2017 election campaign. The text does not deal, in substance, with the reform of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. However, it would have been very interesting to mention this problem, because the contribution is the fuel needed to run this large machine. How can we reinvent and support the public audiovisual service without creating a contributory mechanism adapted to the current consumption of its programmes? However, while we are very critical of this text, we are not sufficiently critical to vote in favour of a motion of prior rejection, the adoption of which is not desired by the members of our group who have studied the bill in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u24	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u25	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u26	[[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] It seems rather strange to replay the debates that animated us during the examination of the Avia law on the suppression of hateful content, then to focus the speech on the concentration of the media, before leaving in many directions, sometimes amazing, while we are considering a bill on the protection of access to cultural works, much expected by professionals. The motion for prior rejection runs counter to the sector's expectations and even to the more measured positions that had been expressed in committee. Our group will obviously vote against this motion and the political project that underlies it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u27	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u28	You had the ambition of having a great audiovisual law passed. We would have needed it, but it is clear that we are far from it: in the text originally introduced last year, buried after its consideration in committee, a much less ambitious bill succeeds, even if we know that it was not easy to put it on the Orders of the Day. It is therefore with frustration that we put the work back on the job, because we see first and foremost shortcomings, even though we are looking forward to some progress. All of this, in our view, does not justify voting in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u29	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u30	On June 22, we are looking at the bill on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age, and not anything else. The text contains important and expected measures, both for the audiovisual sector and for society as a whole. On behalf of my colleagues in the LaREM Group, I consider this bill to be a concrete response to three major challenges. The first is the protection of the rights of creators and thus the improvement of the fight against piracy. Everyone knows that the growth of digital technology, the multiplication of channels and offers, is a major challenge. This text will cut off the signal of pirated and mirrored sites, draw up blacklists and fight against the piracy of sporting events – which, in the middle of the European football championship, should challenge more than one of our fellow citizens. The second issue concerns the modernisation of regulation. The text creates a new entity competent in this field, ARCOM, which will be better equipped to meet the specific challenges of the 21st century, namely the fight against online misinformation and hatred, or the protection of minors. Its expanded tasks and powers of control or investigation will not only make it possible to modernize regulation in a relevant way, but also to increase its effectiveness. The third challenge is to better defend public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works. It is about the cultural sovereignty of France, which will be protected in particular in the context of the purchase of catalogues of French works by foreign actors. The bill fully responds to these three challenges. That is why I call on each and every one of us to vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u31	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u32	[[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] The adoption of a motion of prior rejection would mean that there is no need for debate. However, not only is there a need for debate, but there is an urgent need to do so, because we will probably have no other opportunity before the end of the legislature; because we started these debates more than a year ago; because all the actors in culture and the audiovisual world listen to us and wait for this text; because there is an urgent need to modernise the TNT through the ultra-high definition and HBBTV, given the difficulties of the TNT, whose losses exceed EUR 1 billion over the last 15 years; because there is an urgent need to combat piracy, which also costs more than EUR 1 billion a year; and because the tsunami caused by the major global platforms cannot leave us indifferent. For all these reasons, we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u34	In the general debate, Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u35	For a few years now, we have been looking at new regulations on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. Much expected by cultural and audiovisual professionals, this text provides concrete answers to the three major challenges of protecting the rights of creators, organising and modernising regulation and defending public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works. As far as the fight against piracy – a crucial issue – is concerned, many of the new mechanisms provided for in this bill, such as blacklisting, the device against mirror sites or the specific mechanism against sports piracy, are tools that will speed up the fight against counterfeit sites, which significantly harm our production model. Among the Senate's contributions, the creation of a criminal transaction, the culmination of the graduated response, providing for a fine of 350 euros and the implementation of which would be the responsibility of ARCOM, was at the heart of the committee's debates. The scheme was finally rejected, with many of us reminding us that the priority is the fight against offending sites rather than the punishment of Internet users. However, the individual responsibility of everyone must not be forgotten: in order to reduce the number of offenders – 10 million people – the prevention and awareness of the public must be increased, which the majority put in the text by way of an amendment. As far as sports piracy is concerned, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group obviously welcomes the progress that the text has made and has been defending for a long time. The bill also contains real progress in regulation. By reforming the various authorities responsible for enforcing the common rules by creating a new regulator, ARCOM, it demonstrates our ambition to improve the regulation of online content. This authority, beyond the question of piracy alone, will deploy the tools expected and adopted by Parliament to ensure the protection of minors, the fight against misinformation and the fight against online hatred. The merger of the CSA and HADOPI results in an amendment to the Organic Act of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution. As a reminder, this paragraph concerns jobs or functions for which, by reason of their importance, the appointment by the President of the Republic is preceded by a public opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees. This will be the case for the ARCOM Presidency. Our group welcomes this amendment, which is intended to replace the President of ARCOM with the President of the CSA in the appendix to the aforementioned Organic Act. However, I would like to recall the point of vigilance highlighted by our colleague Philippe Latombe, spokesman for the group on this draft organic law, when it was examined in the Committee on Laws: the recently renewed position of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the preservation of metadata. It is indeed important to bear in mind, during the examination of the bill, this position resulting from the Quadrature du net and Prokuratuur judgments. Another issue on which we have been particularly active since the beginning of the mandate is that of neighbouring rights. Patrick Mignola had also drafted a bill on the subject. Today, the articles of this bill on the remuneration of artists-authors contain real progress. We have, however, voted in favour of the deletion of Article 2a, because we believe that we must now allow the discussions to continue between the actors so that the best agreements can be reached. The bill will also guarantee the protection of our audiovisual and cinematographic heritage by ensuring, if foreign actors buy catalogues of works, that they remain accessible to the French public. This is an important issue of sovereignty because the demand for French and European works that constitute our heritage and our cultural identity has never been so strong. Despite the absence of articles on France Télévisions or Arte, due to the refocusing of the text on ARCOM and piracy, we welcome the recent decree allowing the maintenance of the French channel 4 and the programming Culturebox: the proximity of the offer intended for young people, during the day, and the cultural offer, in the evening, is a strong symbol of the bridges to be built – the most numerous possible – between youth and culture. We need it so much. Thus, the Mouvement Démocratique (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group, well aware of the fragility of our audiovisual sector and our cultural model in the face of what François Léotard already called "the brutality of international competition", will vote in favour of this bill, which clearly provides a concrete response to the current challenges of defending French creation. And since it is not easy for me to convene Plato at the time of the HBBTV, hybrid broadband television, I would rather appeal to the one who is at the initiative of the 1986 law, François Léotard, who, in his penetrating, asked senators whether or not they wanted to enter the 21st century with his project. [[Sophie Mette, rapporteur, and Maud Petit applaud]] While we have been in this century for more than twenty years, this bill certainly invites us to always feed ourselves on the free and vibrant culture that has unfolded since the passage of the 1986 Act, but never lose sight of the protection of works and their authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u36	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u37	Several months after the forced interruption, due to the health crisis, of the examination of the original bill, we are gathered to discuss a new text relating to the French audiovisual landscape and cultural works in the digital age. It should be noted that if you have succeeded, Madam Minister, in putting the bill back in a very busy parliamentary agenda, it has lost some of its feathers over time. Indeed, we are far removed from the big bang of the public audiovisual, promise of reform of candidate Macron during the 2017 campaign. In the same way, we would have liked a reform of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, a mechanism which we consider essential to reinvent in order to support the public audiovisual sector. In addition, the Law on Freedom of Communication of 1986 and the transposition of European directives on copyright have been adapted, although it has been made by order. Finally, after the passage of the text in the Senate, the majority, in committee, came back to the original draft to a large extent. If we look forward to the abolition, as we asked, of the additions of the Senate right favouring concentration, we regret that all the contributions of our socialist colleagues on various subjects – from the protection of copyright to the retransmission of Paralympic disciplines, to women's sport – have been swept away. But we'll get back to it. It is clear that the situation of the French audiovisual landscape, which has undergone profound changes in recent years, deserves the full attention of the legislator. The consumption patterns of audiovisual media have changed, largely due to the arrival of the US digital giants, the GAFAs. The fierce competition of the latter in the field of production investment demands our full vigilance, in order to protect independent producers and our French but also European audiovisual heritage. The recent announcement of the proposed merger between TF1 and M6 or Amazon's incursion into the broadcasting of Ligue 1 are illustrations of this audiovisual revolution, which is not without concern concerning, on the one hand, the phenomenon of media concentration in the fields of information, opinion, advertising or production and, on the other hand, the control of the American giants over the broadcasting of popular events. In the face of these major changes, the shortened text that we are going to examine initially provides for the merger of HADOPI and the CSA to create ARCOM – which we consider to be a good orientation – in order to better regulate content. However, we will ensure that ARCOM has the means to meet the ambitions of the bill. I hope, Madam Minister, that you can reassure us on this point. We will support proposals to ensure that the institution is exemplary in the area of equality between women and men and will ensure that all sports are better valued through better representation in our audiovisual landscape. With regard to Chapter 1, which deals with the fight against piracy, I would like to recall our particular attachment to copyright. Thus, we call for the restoration of articles 2A and 2 bis of our socialist colleagues, concerning the remuneration of works reproduced by the search engine services and the sanctioning of platforms that do not comply with neighbouring rights. By doing so, we reaffirm our willingness to see the giants of the net, and first and foremost Google, abide by the law. But we also want artists to finally be paid for their work and in a fair manner. We are waiting, Madam Minister, for you to reassure us of the agreement reached with Google on this matter, in particular its protective character for artists. Chapter III is devoted to the protection of the exploitation of cinematographic and audiovisual works in the event of transfer. We believe that it needs to be strengthened as set out in the draft bill. We therefore suggest replacing the reporting mechanism with an authorization mechanism, in continuity with the principle of safeguarding the cultural exception, as originally proposed by the Government. In conclusion, I would like to commend the action of public channels during the health crisis, despite the steady and continuing decline in budgets decided by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u38	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u39	We are very pleased to address the debates in session on this bill, which was very much expected by the cultural sector after the suspension, due to the health crisis, the examination of the original text, originally defended by Franck Riester. Minister, we would like to thank you for your struggle to bring this bill before Parliament. It was the culmination of a long work that began with the parliamentary fact-finding mission that I had the honour of chairing, and whose rapporteur was Aurora Bergé. By the way, I welcome my colleague's exemplary commitment to cultural issues in general, and in particular to this text. On this occasion, we conducted a cycle of hearings, for more than six months, with 222 players in the sector. The shared observation was that the legal framework needed to be adapted to the challenge of a profound and rapid change in the audiovisual ecosystem. It is also a success after the transposition of the SMA and "copyright" directives by the Government, which allows for a better sharing of the value produced, ensures greater protection of authors and performers and attests to our need for Europe in a globalized competition. The text presented by the Government and voted by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education is indeed a further step forward, which it seems important to place in the context of the health, economic and human crisis that we have gone through collectively. Indeed, the covid-19 pandemic has particularly affected the world of culture. I am thinking of intermittents, artists, authors, TPEs and SMEs, festivals, theatres, museums, cabarets, theatres and cinemas. The Government has taken unprecedented and unparalleled measures in the world. But the health crisis has largely contributed to accelerating changes in the audiovisual sector, rapid changes in usage and a sharp decline in the advertising market in 2020. Today, the end of the crisis is on the horizon. With the gradual reopening of all our cultural places, we are beginning to return to the life we love. More than ever, the rapid introduction of a new regulatory framework is necessary to support cultural recovery. The bill provides concrete answers to three major issues in the field of audiovisual communication. First of all, it guarantees the protection of the rights of authors, artists, producers, broadcasters and sports federations, by strengthening our anti-piracy arsenal and targeting offending sites that profit commercially from the illegal exploitation of cultural works. It then organises our regulation, which must be streamlined, modernised and adapted to the gradual convergence of audiovisual and digital technologies. There is a need for a more powerful, more armed and competent regulator over the entire scope of the regulation of audiovisual and digital content. The creation of ARCOM thus marks the desire to include this action in a wider policy of regulation of online content. It finally sets up the defence of public access to French cinematographic and audiovisual works, which constitute our heritage and forge the cultural identity of France and Europe throughout the world. The examination of the text in committee has made important progress, and I thank the Minister and the rapporteurs for their work. In particular, we would like to welcome the additions to Article 10 bis B in order to include in the conventional obligations of television service publishers in sports matters, to ensure a balanced representation of women's and men's sports and to increase the visibility of the Handisport. We also welcome the re-establishment of the original version of Article 13, which sets the ceiling on the financial penalties that could be imposed by the future ARCOM. Consideration of the bill in open session will be an opportunity for our group to defend the balance achieved in committee. Similarly, my colleague Maina Sage will propose several adjustments so that the specificities of the ultramarine audiovisual landscape are fully taken into account. Thus, this major text is a continuation of what the Government has been defending since 2017 in order to protect our model of cultural exception, to consolidate our audiovisual sector and to offer it new weapons in the digital age. This will allow him to compete with international platforms. [[Sophie Mette, rapporteur, and Maud Petit applaud]] The Action Together group is very supportive of the debate on this bill. Minister, be assured that we trust you fully because we know you. We know how determined you are to carry out the cultural revival of the country, how passionate and energetic you are and how valuable you are in the face of the scale of the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u40	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u41	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u42	As my colleague Grégory Labille did in committee, I would like to welcome, Madam Minister, your willingness to act against piracy by placing this reform on our already busy agenda. It is true that, with the advent of an increasingly digital society, practices of illegal consumption of culture have changed considerably. From private copies to streaming to downloading, it is difficult for the legislator to keep pace with the new methods. Thus the establishment of a unified authority, whose powers and means of intervention are broad, is good news to protect works but above all to promote good behaviour. More generally, the rationalization of administrative authorities and state agencies is a good thing. I hope that ARCOM will be effective and, above all, that we will be able to listen to it in order to anticipate new fraudulent practices and respond to them as quickly as possible by law. But the action of ARCOM must not be the only one on which we rely to move things forward. The evolution of the consumption patterns of music must encourage us to reflect also on other works. Indeed, the development of a legal and inexpensive streaming offer has made it possible to counter illegal downloading and, although the stakes of the cinema market or series are obviously not the same as those of music, we must encourage the various actors to agree on an extension of offers and catalogues in order to change practices in the right direction. The same applies to sport, where the multiplication of actors and the explosion of operating costs is now incomprehensible to fans, who sometimes have to juggle with three different subscriptions to watch their favorite teams or competitions: in this respect, the recent allocation of the TV rights of Ligue 1 is rather revealing, since a new player has been brought into the market by refusing the coordinated offer of two channels which had long opposed each other. It is the entire audiovisual landscape at national and international level that is evolving, which makes us regret that important provisions of the Riester bill passed by our Cultural Affairs Committee in March 2020 have not been taken over. While international actors such as Amazon are now competing with French historical players, it seems urgent to redefine the framework of the audiovisual market, so that French and Europeans can continue to play a major role in the dissemination of culture. In addition, I welcome the publication this weekend of the decree concerning the upcoming missions of France 4, the maintenance of which is good news for our youth and for equal access to educational and cultural programmes. I will only express the slight regret that it does not mention the need to insist on the scientific education of our young people, as we called for in the review of the research programming law. However, the audiovisual sector remains a simple and playful way of inculcating scientific culture from an early age. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] I shall end with a regret: while our ultramarine colleagues wanted to be able to discuss the role of overseas in the audiovisual sector and, above all, the role that ARCOM could play in ensuring a fair representation of these territories in the programmes, our amendments have all been declared inadmissible as legislative riders. I know that this criticism of the Assembly's authorities is a bad one, but I would like to understand why it would be out of the question of asking ARCOM for reports on the position of the overseas in the audiovisual sector or asking it to guarantee their fair representation. How is he a horseman? And our amendments are not the only ones in this case. It is a great pity that the overseas countries cannot be given a place in this debate, especially since the Government abolished the channel devoted to them less than a year ago: France Ô. Despite the regret I have just expressed, the IDU and Independent Group welcomes this discussion and hopes that our House will continue to take the necessary steps quickly to combat all forms of piracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u43	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u44	You had the ambition to propose to us a great audiovisual law, Madam Minister, and we would have really needed it, but it must be noted that this will not be the case. The original text of last year, buried after its consideration in committee, succeeds a much less ambitious bill, but it has not been easy to put it on our agenda. It is therefore with frustration that we put the work back on the job, as we first see the gaps before we rejoice at its progress. This text will not be an opportunity to discuss the strategy chosen for our audiovisual and media, and I deeply regret it, as the subject is essential for our country. There are, in fact, huge stakes at the heart of the changes that affect audiovisual and digital technology, because they profoundly affect our society and our democracy, our sick democracy. The recent announcement of the proposed merger of TF1 and M6 is one of the illustrations of the changes to the work and justifies our concerns about the audiovisual landscape. While we all deplore the weakening of the public debate every day, how can we not question the concentration of the media in the fields of information and advertising? As we are now going through an electoral period marked by strong abstentions and therefore by the disaffection of our fellow citizens, how can we not think of the role we would like to see our media play? Today, perhaps more than ever, we need a strong public audiovisual environment, which requires both vision, strategy and means. It is our role as parliamentarians to say so, and our duty as legislators to make this possible. Too many media are indeed engaged in a race for audience, for money, and thus contribute to our democratic weakening. The strike movement of the editorial staff of Europe 1 must challenge us in this regard because it shows how much a true vision, at least regarding our public media, is needed to draw up the programmes in order to raise the level of culture, to fight hatred and obscurantism, and thus to enlighten and guide our fellow citizens, thereby strengthening our democracy. At a time of social networks and disinformation, at a time of little thought-reducing phrases, we must accompany the media towards the search for excellence! It's our role and our duty. This atrophied bill leaves behind many questions without deciding them: the reform of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, which Franck Riester had promised by 2021 at the latest, the missions and governance of our public audiovisual sector or the explosion of advertising. The Senate has tried to fill some gaps, which we welcome: I think, for example, that France 3 is best accessible, because our public television must reflect our territories. In saying this, I can only deplore the abolition of France Ô, which accentuates the feeling of invisibility of our overseas citizens. The only victory torn apart was the maintenance of France 4, this youth channel, in favour of which our Freedom and Territory group, Frédérique Dumas in the lead, had particularly mobilized. The announcement of the decree made pursuant to the decision of the President of the Republic is welcome in this regard, but remains insufficient: we wanted to include the retention of France 4 in the law – we will come back to that when we consider the amendments. In this context of audiovisual change, the role of the independent authorities is crucial: I am thinking particularly today of the CSA, and tomorrow of the ARCOM that this law will create. But will it give him the authority and the means to play his role as a gendarmerie in order to better control and punish the abuses of all kinds that fuel withdrawals, violence, hatred and misinformation manifest in our media? To live up to the task we assign to it, ARCOM will have to be accountable to the legislator and have sufficient human and financial resources – while those of the CSA have tended to decline in recent years – knowing that the text strengthens, rightly, its tasks in the fight against piracy. With regard to the other essential part of this text, namely support for the creation and protection of cultural works, the debate is truncated since the European directives on copyright and audiovisual media services have been transposed by order and, in parallel, the negotiations continue – I am thinking in particular of the investment obligations of the channels – with Parliament being rejected. All this adds to the confusion. While the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes this bill, it insists that, without a comprehensive strategy or vision for our public audio-visual industry and for our creation, we take the risk of failing to meet the challenges that their changes pose to our society and our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u45	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u46	As a result of the proliferation of formats and media, as well as the changing patterns of consumption in recent years, the media have evolved considerably to the point where they no longer have a suitable legal framework. We now consume content in all places and on all occasions – at home, at the office, on holiday and even in transportation. A reform of the audiovisual sector must question the balance between linear media and digital online platforms, and open the debate on the future of the audiovisual sector. But the original bill, which contained eighty-two articles, was largely emptied of its substance, and the new bill, reduced to twenty-one articles, was considered by the commission in just a few hours. You will no doubt answer, Madam Minister, that the SMA directive and the directive on copyright and neighbouring rights in the digital single market, as well as the provisions on cable and satellite, have already been transposed by order – yes, this procedure is very practical – through the DDADE law, and that they incorporate certain themes present in the original bill... Certainly, but no substantive reflection is being undertaken on the profound changes in the audiovisual sector! Still nothing about the fee and financing of the public audiovisual sector, nothing about its public service mission or the necessary framework for advertising, yet increasingly present and harmful, especially in the private sector. The central topic of this bill is the creation of ARCOM, a merger of the CSA and HADOPI. Unfortunately, this merger will not be an opportunity to reflect on the evolution of the missions and resources allocated to this new entity. If piracy must, of course, be combated, why keep the Hadopi's missions whose effectiveness is at least disputed and which was bypassed by the use of VPN, which make it easy to escape tracing? Let us take the case of sports piracy: football accounts for 77% of the sports content viewed illegally, the most hacked competition being the UEFA Champions League – in 2018, every day was illegally watched by 677000 netizens in France, according to figures provided by the association for the fight against audiovisual piracy and by Mediametry. But by incriminating sports enthusiasts, who bypass paid access, we forget that these sporting events are less and less accessible without a subscription and that there is, no doubt, a subject for reflection. For example, in 2018, the hourly volume of sports on television was estimated at 8781 hours for non-subscription television compared to 137447 hours for pay television. Moreover, the appointment of the President of ARCOM will be made by the President of the Republic as at the time of the CSA, which we deplore. Finally, media concentration, an important topic because it jeopardizes the balance and pluralism of information in particular, is not addressed in this bill. This is a regrettable gap. Recently, TF1 announced the acquisition of 30% of shares in the M6 group; This future private audiovisual mastodon should therefore concentrate 70% of the advertising market and bring together 42% of the audience. But for you, it doesn't seem like a subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u47	That's disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u48	We defend the project of an independent regulatory authority of the executive that integrates among its users, and that can promote access to culture and sports events by offering accessible offers without subscription, guarantee the plurality, representativeness and independence of the media, protect the personal data of citizens – here again, it is the sidereal vacuum – and finally fight against digital pollution – the sidereal vacuum is vast, decidedly! It is in this direction that we would like to see ARCOM's missions evolve. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As you will have understood, on the occasion of this missed meeting, the Members of the group La France insoumise will not vote, as it stands, for this very small text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u49	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u50	We regret that the great bill promised since the beginning of the quinquennium has been reduced to so little today. It is not up to the ambition that should be pursued for the audiovisual sector in general and for the public service of the audiovisual sector in particular. The audiovisual field is undergoing profound changes which, however, should be analysed and dealt with. The public service of the audiovisual sector has been the victim of increasing budget cuts – since 2012, France Télévisions' total workforce has decreased by more than 6%. It finds itself in great difficulty in the face of new actors, but also in the face of a much better armed private sector. Many key issues are therefore not addressed: the audiovisual fee, the tasks of the public audiovisual service, but also the worrying explosion of advertising in the private sector. The first version of the bill examined last year left the mark on advertisers: it allowed a third advertising cut, extended the possibilities for product placement and made advertisements legal in a corner of the screen during the retransmission of sports events. These subjects will be dealt with this time by decree or by order; We strongly oppose it. The bill does not address the central issue of media concentration. During the examination of the previous bill, we had opposed the creation of a holding company comprising France Télévisions, Radio France, France Médias Monde and INA, while the process of concentration is under way in the private sector, in particular with the merger of TF1 and M6, dedicated to playing a monopolistic role that will bring a new blow to the pluralism of information. Their merger will allow them to control 70% of the advertising market, i.e. 2.3 billion cumulative advertising revenues. In the face of this, we have been calling since the beginning of the quinquennium for the development of a powerful and democratic public audiovisual service, a vehicle for pluralism and capable of meeting contemporary challenges. Let us return to the text which, despite its lack of ambition, presents some developments, in particular the merger of the CSA and HADOPI within ARCOM, although we regret the absence of any real reflection on the evolution of the missions and resources attributed to this new regulatory agency. In addition, we welcome the removal in committee of the criminal transaction contained in Article 1. Added by the Senate right, it provided for a fine of 350 euros against pirate netizens. We consider that this fine would have penalized the youngest and the neophytes in computer science, who, in the area of piracy, are not the ones who commit and repeat the most serious offences. Piracy of sporting events is, of course, a crucial issue, but it seems to us to be too artificially dealt with in the bill we are considering. The offer of sports competitions is fragmented, and prices constantly negotiated upwards. For example, less than 50% of Euro football matches will be open. The same applies to the Ligue 1 matches, which are fully trusted by Amazon and which has purchased all the broadcasting rights: once again, a private actor prevents the French from having access to a large-scale sporting competition, while we consider, on the contrary, that access to major competitions is a common good. [[MM. Pierre Dharréville and Alain David applaud]] In the end, there are too many gaps in the text to attract frank support from us. We are also opposed to the content of future decrees and ordinances that will take up the problematic aspects of the first version of the audiovisual bill. For these reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u52	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-22-O1316.u53	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the draft law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age; Further to the discussion of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law No. 2010-837 of 23 July 2010, on the application of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
