ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution to recognise and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19 (No 3792).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u2	In the general discussion, the floor was Ms. Patricia Mirallès.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u3	In the fog of our country, we Members have a responsibility to guide the national ship in good port. Among the pitfalls that stand before us, this pandemic is a sharp rock with a thousand facets. We must not forget any aspect of this virus, any victim, any form of suffering. Often criticized for its heaviness, however, our state remains a stainless shield in the face of the daily dangers of a nation's life. He must now more than ever be present alongside each other. Under the leadership of the President of the Republic, the action of the State has allowed and still allows to stand up to a crisis that has caused more than one to waver. The unprecedented economic support that the state has been providing for months to our companies in distress allows us to reap a significant share of the shock that we are experiencing. The response of government departments and their administrations allows our health care system to survive and all our caregivers to stand out on a daily basis in this fierce struggle. Now, although the storm continues, the time has come to raise our eyes to the human and to look beyond the drama and the immediate: the time has come to raise our heads. For there are silent sufferings, pains that are silent and yet gnawing the bodies and souls of many of our fellow citizens. Covid-19 is a terrible, violent, dangerous disease. We have collectively made it painful learning. Today's message to you with my colleague Julien Borowczyk,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u5	... all the Members of the three groups of the majority and the co-signatories of the motion for a resolution refer to what is known as the "long co-vid". Our reflection is the result of the exchanges we have had with the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u7	So many patients, so many doctors, so many scientists have accompanied us in this legislative process. They have each put a little of themselves in this text and I thank them for that. Long months after being infected, children and adults still suffer from heart, joint, respiratory, neurological and psychological conditions. These handicaps are compounded by the current lack of knowledge and recognition of this new disease. The support of society as a whole is essential to enable patients to get out of the test. The support of the scientific community is also essential to enable them at least to understand what they are suffering. I myself have experienced these torments. I lived the suffocating silence of the hospital rooms separated for the patients of the Covid-19. I've lived these endless hours and days when we wonder if the sun will rise again. I've lived these moments when the memory of our loved ones seems to be moving away without being able to say goodbye or I love you. Like many, fortunately, I came out alive. Living, but not unharmed. From my nights and from my still broken body, however, a will emerged: that of seeing the sufferings that so much and so many of our fellow citizens are finally recognized; to ensure that all patients with long-term covid have a structured and adapted care path, with the support of the scientific and medical community. To respond to the patient's sense of wandering, we need to guide health care professionals in their daily work. There is also a desire to allow greater recognition of the occupational disease for those who have been contaminated while they are helping to keep our country in afloat. This will is to see the human return to the heart of our actions and thoughts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is why, together with my colleague Julien Borowczyk and all patients with long covid, we need your support. Beyond this House, I invite every citizen to join us so that never again do these patients suffer alone. You too, ladies and gentlemen, join us in this battle that is so worthwhile. Join us, regardless of your political background. Let us live up to those who rely on us, because this virus does not vote: it breaks, it kills.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u8	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u9	Colleagues, it has now been a year since the covid-19 pandemic affected our country and the whole world. The first patients with covid-19 in France contracted it in February. And since then, some of them still have symptoms. The aim of this trans-party motion for a resolution is to recognise and take into account the symptoms during the course of this disease. Indeed, many patients have been in distress for months. As early as June 2020, thanks to the testimonies of some patients, I became aware of the difficulties faced by people with persistent symptoms of covid-19. That is why I tabled, in June 2020, the bill to recognize the persistent symptoms of covid-19 and to take care of those affected. I would like to thank all the colleagues who co-signed this trans-party proposal. Since then, we have worked with Patricia Mirallès on a mechanism that can be debated in this House. This motion for a resolution is the result of this joint work. Covid-19 is an infection that can take many forms and not just lung forms, even if it is the most serious since it can be lethal. However, other symptoms should not be minimized. Long covid results in many persistent ailments: intense fatigue, muscle weakness, acute pain, digestive and intestinal disorders, heart problems, cognitive disorders, neurological disorders, dermatological problems... More than 100 symptoms were identified by patients as early as June. They are indicative of long-term sequelae that prevent the resumption of normal life, the return to work and a real social life. It would appear that the proportion of patients who develop long covid is 10%; an Anglo-Saxon study estimates it even at 20%. We must be aware that patients with persistent symptoms have been swept from one doctor to another for months, from one hospital department to another. They are not recognized and encounter the misunderstanding of their relatives, their employer, but also, for many, of the health professionals themselves: no one in the medical profession had considered the existence of persistent symptoms. These sick people are waiting and hoping very much for this debate. I'm going to bring you some testimonies from fellow citizens who have been suffering from long covid, for some of them for now a year. I'll start with Annabelle's, who made a book of it. Annabelle is thirty-seven years old. She's been an active young woman who's been sick of long covid since March. In her book, she describes her history, isolation, persistent symptoms and inability to return to work normally. There is also the testimony of Aurore, who says: "Yesterday, in the ER, when I started talking about my symptoms without saying that I'm a long covid, the doctor told me: I don't understand, but what is it? Have you consulted specialists for all your symptoms? » And Paul's: "We, for almost a year, have been ignored by this pandemic, suffering in silence from sequelae without answers or care. » Finally, Céline's testimony: "Covid long eleven months, big relapse. I can't walk or stand. » Not all patients who caught covid-19 in March and April 2020 were tested. They have not performed PCR tests and are therefore not recognized as having had this disease. Let us recall the contradictory discourse of the Government at the time: no masks, therefore wearing unnecessary masks; no tests, so no test required. Some patients infected during this period were kept at home with just paracetamol and telephone calls from doctors. Their symptoms were not considered serious enough for them to be hospitalized. Why? Because of the lack of resources and beds in our hospitals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We need real recognition for these patients. That is why Members of the Republican Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u11	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u12	We are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis that affects hundreds of thousands of our citizens throughout the Republic. Whether it is through illness or the loss of a loved one, it has marked thousands of French in their flesh. In this fight against covid-19, we must first welcome the commitment of all our healthcare professionals. In the hospital, in residential institutions for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – or in city medicine, all fight to protect the most vulnerable from the virus. I would also like to commend the mobilization of the entire population to minimize the spread of the pandemic in all territories. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the crisis that we have been going through for a year is causing serious economic, psychological and social problems. Our society as a whole suffers from the consequences of covid-19. Among them emerges a new problem, little known and on which we have little scientific and medical retreat: the effects of what is called "long covid", which results in the persistence of serious symptoms, several weeks or months after the infection. There are many: intense fatigue, skin reactions, muscle pain, difficulty breathing, chronic migraines, all of which are serious and diverse problems that daily handicap the lives of several thousand of our fellow citizens, sometimes six months after the first signs of the disease appear. According to the High Health Authority, more than half of patients still have at least one of the initial symptoms of covid-19 four weeks after the onset of the disease, and more than 10% still suffer six months later, whether they have contracted a milder or more severe form of covid-19 that necessitated hospitalization. According to another study published in early January 2021 in The Lancet magazine, 76% of patients hospitalized with covid-19 suffer from at least one persistent symptom six months later. For the time being, the scientific community and health care professionals have few specific explanations or answers for these patients. Many patients suffering from post-covid syndrome therefore remain without any therapeutic response. This inevitably translates into suffering and also a severe disability in everyday life, which weighs primarily in the professional sphere but also in the family sphere and psychologically. In fact, there is an increasing number of testimonies from patients in this situation. As a result, it is essential to provide them with accompaniment. National representation and the Government must redouble their efforts to better understand and treat this disease. To do this, scientific research must first be strengthened, in order to increase our knowledge of the effects and complications of long-term covid-19. Health authorities must also be able to provide effective and appropriate care pathways for all sick persons in need, with the assistance of the High Health Authority in particular. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Finally, the Government must quickly begin an ambitious reflection to facilitate the recognition as an occupational disease of conditions caused by the serious forms of covid -19. Responding to the distress and suffering of sick people, providing specific solutions and support to patients with long covid, these are the ambitions of the motion for a resolution that we are considering today. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, which is co-signatory, will support it with force and demand, so that the process of research, monitoring and recognition of the long-term effects of covid-19 can be initiated quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u13	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u14	Today we are considering the draft resolution tabled by members of the majority to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19. Let me begin by recalling that a resolution adopted pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution is an act by which the Assembly issues only an opinion on a specific issue; It is an invitation to act addressed to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u15	It's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u16	It is not, let us say, a binding tool. Together with my colleague Christian Hutin and the entire Socialist and related group, we tabled last June a bill – I insist on the word "law" – creating a fund to compensate the victims of the covid-19. This text will be discussed tomorrow at the meeting. Rejected as a whole last week by the majority in committee, it provides for compensation for all the damage suffered for the serious victims of this terrible disease, including those suffering from long covid, not to mention the beneficiaries of the deceased. Among the many victims of covid-19 are those hospitalized for whom resuscitation care has been required, which has often resulted in serious physical, cardiac, muscle and psychological sequelae. In addition to these serious patients, there are other, less known and less visible victims whose daily lives have been disrupted since their infection with the virus: they are victims of the so-called "long covid", characterized by persistent and particularly disabling symptoms, the first of which are rapid shortness of breath, chronic fatigue and de-adaptation to exercise, as well as cognitive disorders, anosmia or agueusia. If it is still early to give a precise figure, it is likely that the long covid affects several hundred thousand people in France; WHO – World Health Organization – estimates their number between 10 and 20 million worldwide. We share with you the desire to provide patients, including patients with long covid, with appropriate care and accompaniment. Many of these patients are unable to return to work, sometimes several months after they have contracted the disease. Some have come to the end of their rights and may see a great financial difficulty in addition to physical and psychological suffering. For the moment, many of them do not benefit from long-term medical insurance (ALD) recognition. As a result, the care they need can be costly and complex to obtain. It is obvious that we must also continue to deepen our knowledge of this disease through research, as you suggest. However, it is essential to address the urgency of the situation and the major risks of occupational disintegration for these people: several employees suffering from these disabling symptoms have already been dismissed for incapacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u17	There's been some!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u18	In view of the issues at stake, the mechanism described in your motion for a resolution seems to us to be inadequate in many respects. In this text, you invite the Government to "facilitate the recognition as an occupational disease of conditions caused by serious forms of SARS-CoV-2 infection having a professional origin in the diversity of their manifestations. The system for the recognition of these pathologies in occupational diseases, provided for by the decree of 14 September 2020, is very far from meeting the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u19	Money doesn't cure the patient!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u20	Only focusing on recognition as an occupational disease, the proposed compensation scheme also leaves many people behind: the self-employed, who in the vast majority are not insured against the risk AT-MP – work accident and occupational disease – but also the countless "collateral" or "environmental" victims who contracted the virus outside of their professional activity. Our bill thus opens up compensation to all serious victims, regardless of whether the disease is of professional origin or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u22	On the other hand, the compensation obtained in the context of recognition as an occupational disease, often after a real journey of the combatant, is flat-rate and very insufficient in view of the numerous physical, moral and economic harm suffered by the victims. The repair that we propose is integral: it aims to place the person in the state as close as possible to that in which it would have been if the damage had not occurred. We need more action than words than ever before. It is necessary to provide these patients with compensation as soon as possible, in order to mitigate the impact of the crisis and to avoid critical financial situations. [[Caroline Fiat and Pierre Dharréville applaud]] As our colleague Caroline Fiat said last week, "To begin to heal, we must first be recognized. That is why, despite all the reservations I have just expressed, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution while calling on you, ladies and gentlemen, to assume your responsibilities tomorrow, when you have to examine in the same Chamber a bill that is not just a wish for piousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u23	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u24	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u25	This afternoon we are considering the motion for a resolution to recognize and deal with the long-term complications of covid-19. The "long covid" is a form of the disease characterized by polymorphic, resurgent and persistent symptoms, which greatly affects and upsets the lives of patients. The major anxiety it causes for those who have experienced it testifies to the seriousness of its effects, requiring detailed management to match the psychological and physical feelings of the pathology. In the healing process, identification and understanding of the symptoms of a disease is vital. For example, the World Health Organization has begun to organize seminars that will bring together clinicians, researchers and experts to try to find a definition of the disease, give it a formal name and harmonize methods to study it. Indeed, the urgent demand of these patients, who want to be recognized as patients, obliges us to strengthen the means available to the research, in order to establish a list of criteria for refining the diagnosis of the disease. The difficulty lies in the protein nature of the associated pathology, which must be identified not only by the result of the screening test, but also by taking into account the plurality of the symptoms encountered. Better recognition of the disease and its sequelae will also make it possible to better anticipate its effects not only on our health system but also on our society as a whole. Indeed, our community as a whole is affected by the long-term effects of the virus: first in hospitals, but it will also be affected tomorrow in the business world or in associations. The emergence of a long covid also raises the question of the sustainability of support and support systems for these patients. Indeed, many patients have declared that they can no longer live as before so much shortness of breath, fatigue, joint and muscle pain are felt: for them, every gesture of everyday life has become a test. I cannot help but draw a parallel with fibromyalgia, another pathology about which we still have a lot of progress to make – this is one of my fights, you know. We will therefore have to think about a model of care that takes into account this inability to perform the tasks of everyday life alone. The need to create a framework to deal with the long-term consequences of the virus will also lead to a concentration of information for each doctor and thus create an identified and identical path for all patients. It is through research that we can find and reveal the markers of long covid and thus limit the medical error experienced by some patients, which adds psychological fatigue to the physical fatigue of the symptoms. As Swiss writer and philosopher Henri-Frédéric Amiel pointed out, "Knowing his evil is already a half-healing. Thus, if we wish to combat this virus in depth, it is essential that we investigate the extent of its strength today; This will allow us to better understand its limits. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Justine Benin also applauds]] This motion for a resolution therefore sends a clear and strong message that we must listen to, for all those patients who are currently without a solution. I would therefore like to thank her authors, Patricia Mirallès and Julien Borowczyk, and the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text, which we have co-signed for the most part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u26	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u27	Many studies show that many patients with covid-19 develop long-term conditions. Unfortunately, it seems that this famous "long covid" concerns both patients who have developed serious forms of infection and those of our fellow citizens who have suffered only from benign forms. The symptoms are very diverse: great fatigue, respiratory discomfort, brain fog, and many others. They prevent the day-to-day tasks from being carried out and sometimes even from maintaining a professional activity. The long covid also strikes our young people. Several months after being tested positive for covid -19, some still feel very tired; Others find themselves unable to pursue physical activity, which they did regularly before their infection. One thing is certain: we are lacking in hindsight about this virus and in particular the long covid. But that is not why we can ignore it. Those who suffer from it are not imaginary patients. And yet, those who suffer from these persistent symptoms after their infection with covid-19 are often in a state of medical error. In the eyes of our path of care, these patients do not exist, no suitable treatment can be offered to them and no word is given about the evil that no longer leaves them. And what about the psychological consequences! As you think you're recovering, you're falling again and again. The tasks of everyday life become insurmountable, your way of life changes, deteriorates and everything becomes unbearable. In addition to the restrictions associated with the crisis, there are more intrusive, handicaping restrictions, a lancinating evil that harasses you, which puts your body and mind under control. The sick have organized themselves to hear them: they gather in the form of collectives, publish fora, gather in associations and set up communication operations on social networks. Not only must they fight against the persistence of their symptoms, they must also show that they exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u28	Because they're suffering!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u29	All of us here, ladies and gentlemen, must commit ourselves to recognizing the reality of their pathology and suffering and to putting in place an appropriate path of care. On 24 September, I interviewed the Minister of Health on questions to the Government. He told me he was going to seize the High Health Authority, which he did. The HAS has just given its opinion and confirms that this long covid -19 is not at all an invention, that it exists and that it is necessary to provide answers to those who are affected by it. It's already important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u30	A resolution will solve everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u31	As a result of this question, I have tabled a bill to put in place a platform where all the patients concerned could describe their symptoms, which could allow physicians to draw an exploitable record of their symptoms. This bill would be beneficial to all, useful in particular in the development of a path of care adapted to these patients...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u32	Ours, which will be presented tomorrow, is very good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u33	I do not doubt for a moment, my dear colleague, but it would be nice to let me speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u34	You don't have the floor, Mr. Hutin. Please proceed, Mr. Zumkeller.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u35	This is Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u36	Mr Hutin, you are charming, but if we can no longer speak in the gallery, it is no longer Parliament, it is Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u37	No, it's Clemenceau and Jaurès!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u38	[[Smile]] You're wonderful... I am not sure that you would have managed to interrupt Clemenceau and Jaurès in this way, but this is another debate. Patients could thus be referred either to their treating physician and be covered by a treatment protocol, or to a post-covid care unit -19 for those with heavier pathologies. To facilitate the orientation of patients with persistent and heavy pathologies, we propose that the SRA provide the necessary human and financial resources. It should be added that the necessary analyses and care should be 100% covered by the health insurance. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Justine Benin also applauds]] In conclusion, our group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is a salutary first step towards the recognition of long covid -19. Since this resolution is not binding, we will, however, ensure that real concrete measures are taken to ensure that in the future all these patients of long covid -19 are taken care of and that they no longer suffer from this disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u39	The floor is for Mrs Caroline Fiat, and for her own sake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u40	It's better because today I don't have a voice... But it's not the covid, I assure you! In our permanences, we have all received messages from people who continue to suffer from covid-19 when they are no longer carrying the virus. However, the persistent and polymorphic symptoms of covid-19, which are increasingly documented, are still not recognized by the public authorities. The sequelae are numerous – daily fever, joint pain for long months and so many others – and vary according to the affected people, preventing some of them from working for long periods of time. The patients concerned should be able to benefit easily from the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease and, in this case, from full medical follow-up, full reimbursement of their health costs, the adaptation of their workplace and even recognition as a long-term condition. But they remain invisible and ignored by the public authorities, while they represent at the bottom 10 to 20% of those who have contracted covid-19 without going into resuscitation. The state is partly responsible for these conditions: even if you do not like it, I would remind you that Minister Veran felt, at the beginning of the epidemic, that wearing the mask was "unnecessary".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u42	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u43	On 30 October, WHO launched a global alert. It is imperative that governments recognize the long-term effects of covid-19 and ensure access to health services for all these patients. This includes primary health care and, where necessary, specialized care and rehabilitation. This implies the establishment of a comprehensive strategy for the monitoring and care of covid -19 long: health protocol, coordination of care throughout the territory, research programme, prevention campaign. Recall that the decree of the Minister of Health, Olivier Véran, allowing certain caregivers to benefit from the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease, remains reserved for caregivers and only those who have been put on oxygen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u44	Two hundred people to this day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u45	The minister thus forgets all the other patients, all the other professions, all the first chores and all the caregivers who have fallen ill who have developed other forms of diseases that are sometimes very painful and for long periods of time. This is the case of Mélanie Serpaggi, this Ajaccio caregiver, who suffered from covid-19 last March and whose symptoms have persisted over the weeks and months: muscle pain, fever, severe fatigue. Many, like her, have been forced to stop working without being recognized as victims of an occupational disease. It is a serious lack of public power that we must repair. It is about the health and dignity of our caregivers, but also about the attractiveness of the care professions – a subject that I think is so precious, as you know. In the absence of a revision of the decree made by the minister on September 14, this text – which is just a motion for a resolution, as my colleague Juanico has explained – could respond in part to their situation as well as that of many other workers or people with long co-vids. We have already asked on several occasions that the medical error of the patients during the covid-19 should cease. We ask that these patients be recognised, but above all that they receive full and prompt care. Régis Juanico and Christian Hutin have tabled a bill – something other than a motion for a resolution! This text, which will be presented tomorrow, proposes such recognition and support. But you emptied him of all his meaning when he went to committee, which we do not understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u46	All right! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u47	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u48	"Money doesn't cure the sick," I heard earlier. For my part, speaking of this resolution, I had made comments that were taken up by Régis Juanico: "Recognition is a first step towards healing. The second step towards healing is morale, good morale. When you don't have money, you get 50% of your salary because you're sick, you're counting your livelihoods, you don't have good morale, you don't heal. It is often said that money does not bring happiness, but it contributes to it. When I hear that money does not cure the sick, I want to answer: it may contribute a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This proposal for recognition is a first step, a very small step. We will of course vote for this very small step, but we are really in a hurry to vote for the big step proposed tomorrow in the framework of the socialist parliamentary niche.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u52	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u53	The plural left is back!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u54	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the considerable work done by researchers and doctors to apprehend and understand the virus responsible for covid-19 so quickly. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go. Since the outbreak began, every day seems to bring its share of unexpected, sometimes disconcerting, discoveries. For the past two months, we have been confronted with mutations of this virus, variations incorrectly called British, South African or Brazilian that upset the little certainty we have gained, particularly on the issue of immunity. The consequences of this virus are unpredictable, protiform, fluctuating, sometimes long, very long. This subject affects me personally because I am one of those for whom the disease has left lasting traces that make daily life difficult and exhausting. My case is not isolated: many patients are affected by these complications, including people with mild forms – young women would be particularly affected. We now know that respiratory abilities are not the only ones to be altered. The most common lasting symptoms are intense fatigue, muscle weakness, sleep disorders, depression, loss of smell, migraines or hair loss, to the point that one can wonder if it is still relevant to talk about covid-19 as if there was only one form of the disease. We have all been confronted with the distress of those people who ask us, no longer knowing who to turn to. It is more than time to put an end to this wandering in search of diagnosis and care. The support – particularly financial – to research is obviously a prerequisite for accurately determining the sequelae of covid-19 in the medium and long term, temporary or permanent, psychic as well as physical. It also seems essential to us to better involve city medicine. For a long time, we relied primarily on the public hospital and emergencies to cope with the crisis, until saturation in some places; We will never pay enough tribute to the dedication of health care professionals. But as the crisis settles over time and the disease develops in various and long forms, city medicine must return to its place. It is also the meaning of the recommendations published last Friday by the HAS that suggests a personalized and coordinated approach by the treating physician, and the allocation of a central place to rehabilitation, particularly respiratory. If current patients were better cared for, it would be possible to prevent such complications in potential future patients. Better, by improving knowledge of the consequences of covid-19, we could also move forward on its recognition as an occupational disease: the decree adopted on 14 September last remains very restrictive in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u56	On 18 November, the Libertés et territoires group asked the Government, in the voice of our colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva, about the important limits of this recognition: for caregivers, only the severe forms that required oxygen therapy are taken into account; for non-caregivers, the assessment is done on a case-by-case basis. By imposing such restrictive conditions, we do not live up to the dedication shown by all those who have maintained their activity and who have been exposed to the virus so that our society can continue to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u57	Two hundred people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u58	It is difficult to address the issue of the recognition of the complications of covid-19 without mentioning the issue of reparation, and therefore the desirability of creating a compensation fund. We will have the opportunity to say more about this tomorrow, when we consider the Socialist and related group's bill. Thinking about the relevance of such a fund is not pointless. Therefore, we do not want the adoption of this resolution to be a pretext for evacuating the debate that we will have tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u59	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We can only share the desire to improve research and knowledge about the long-term complications and sequelae of covid-19, as well as the care of patients who suffer from it. Because we want to make real progress in recognizing these diseases, our group will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u61	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u62	For the past year, humanity has suffered an unprecedented health crisis. This situation calls for capital mobilization everywhere. If this event has put us in front of many unknowns, it must be noted that the public authorities have struggled to rise to the level. It has been all the more distressed as it has been deeply weakened by decades of neoliberal policies. Hospital conditions, mask stocks, testing campaigns and immunization strategies are a cause for concern. In the preamble, I would like to stress two points: the feeling of revolt, first of all, that the existence of profits on the pandemic can cause: if I echo this, it is because, beyond their ethically unbearable nature, these profits will always be at the expense of ownership. The sense of abandonment that may then exist, especially among those who have suffered the prolonged assaults of the virus, plus a real difficulty in being heard. All this reinforces, in my view, the need for action to ensure that medicines and vaccines are firmly placed in the order of the common goods of humanity, so as not to add inequalities to inequalities. Indeed, we are uneven in front of the covid virus -19: some of those who contract it experience heavy symptoms while others do not experience any; Some suffer the effects over time, while others do not keep any sequence. For a while, these lasting symptoms, which can be disabling and disturbing, remained in the shadows. Yet they call for real recognition, effective support and support, as Caroline Fiat insisted a few moments ago. Physiological and psychological, these persistent complications point to one observation: more than 30% of patients still have symptoms after six weeks or even months. Yesterday, the WHO addressed the issue and, according to the covid-19 response leader, "a better understanding of the cause is needed so that we can improve prevention, management and how to treat it." [[Smile]] Without delay, doctors and researchers are already sharing their knowledge. This research is essential for a better understanding of these diseases and for the development of pharmaceutical responses. In fact, the HAS recommends funding research to answer the many scientific questions that remain about these symptoms and how to treat them. Our country has many high-level researchers. They have been mistreated for years, forced to comply with evaluation and funding systems that are completely out of step with their practices and issues. And we have not come out of this logic, which is further strengthened by the multi-annual research programming law. I would point out in passing that, according to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, research would have required a budget of EUR 6 billion for the year 2021. The research in France is in great pain, but how can we not be reassured by the Missi dominici of the minister who will put out of order to harm the agents of the political conspiracy that is involved, perhaps even in our biomedicine laboratories? LOL! With regard to patient follow-up, the HAS recommended last week "a personalized approach coordinated by the treating physician and a central place for rehabilitation, including respiratory rehabilitation". These recommendations, of course, involve equipping treating physicians to accompany these patients, but also recognizing long-term covid as a long-term condition in order to allow for comprehensive care and not to make it a new ground of inequality. Finally, with regard to recognition as an occupational disease, the scope of the table is limited and has been the subject of numerous criticism. When the effects of the disease settle over time while, because of their workplace, the person has been particularly exposed, recognition should be established. This requires political will, so far embryonic. Christian Hutin and Régis Juanico have made a concrete proposal, which will be discussed in session tomorrow. In the end, if we can share the fine intentions of this resolution, and even thank you for it, we are wondering about its political reasons. We are convinced that it was born out of a genuine concern, but that is not enough to justify your approach. Disagreement with the Government? A desire to display? We do not know what to think and we wonder whether this is not a petition of principle and a policy of good conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u63	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u64	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Christian Hutin and Mrs Justine Benin also applaud]] The Government has the means to act, or in any case it should do so. We shall keep in mind that the subject is, for the most part, also on the table; It will still be there after the vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u65	On the vote on the motion for a resolution, a request for a public vote is being submitted to the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u66	This resolution is, of course, welcome. I've always been one of those who took seriously the severity of the epidemic. When the Government felt that the mask was useless and discouraged the French from using it, I recommended it, despite the mockery. When Mrs. Agnès Buzyn opposed the closure of the borders, and Mr. Véran considered it totally useless, I was one of those who recommended it. When you explained to us that the tests were not necessary and that you took so long to deploy them, we demanded them. You bear an overwhelming responsibility in the current situation, and a resolution should not give you the opportunity to exonerate yourself from it. It is also paradoxical that we should end up voting on resolutions since this means that Parliament's powers have been transferred to the President of the Republic, who takes decisions in the framework of a defence council or a meeting of the Scientific Council, without any record. The majority, frustrated that they no longer have any power since last March and until 1 June, or even until 31 December, relieves their conscience by proposing a resolution. This is obviously positive: who can be against research? Who can be against appropriate care pathways – or rather structured, it sounds better? Who can be against professional recognition of the disease? Unfortunately, it is only a resolution, a pious wish. Over and above the political divides, I would much prefer the proposal of Messrs. Christian Hutin and Régis Juanico on a compensation fund, because the real question is there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u68	We all know that the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease is not enough, for a very simple reason, already explained: it is a combatant's journey, compensation is lump sum and many of our fellow citizens who suffer from long symptoms – the merit of this resolution, and I thank you for it, is to talk about it – have contracted the disease outside the professional environment. Recognition is even more difficult for self-employed people. I have no doubt about your good faith or the sincerity of your approach, and I will of course vote for this resolution, but this is a time when Parliament should come out of pious wishes. I will therefore take advantage of this debate and the time allocated to me to ask the Secretary of State four simple questions, which do not relate to the consequences of covid, but to the means of preventing the epidemic from progressing yet. Why didn't you send and still don't send FFP2 masks to the elderly French, like Mrs Merkel who sent a lot of fifteen very protective FFP2 masks, produced in Germany, to 27 million German households? I've been asking for it for months, but Mr. Véran is not interested. Why don't you act in the direction of strengthening collective immunity through a real policy of prevention, thanks to vitamin D, which was recommended by the National Academy of Medicine in May? You don't hate me or doctors like Dr Didier Raoult or Professor Christian Perronne, but the National Academy of Medicine itself advocates it. Nothing's done. Six learned societies, seventy-three experts who signed an appeal dated 19 January, a study by Angers' CHU and research from around the world prove that vitamin D deficiency weakens the immunity of our fellow citizens. And there is still no refund for the vitamin D dosage, which would allow us to know if the residents of our EHPADs are caressed. We still have no response from the minister. There is also no response to early treatment, which would have avoided the long cases we are encountering today. These medicines, which, worldwide, treat patients, are rejected by the Ministry of Health and by a dogmatic minister who, in his reply to Mrs Martine Wonner, assimilated them to bleach. However, fortunately, many French doctors prescribe ivermectin, which gives very positive results; However, 20 randomised studies, some of them double-blind, show that some traditional molecules, which present no danger, prevent the development of serious forms of the disease. Similarly, why do the Government and the committee of the Ministry of Health block the studies of the Institut Pasteur in Lille? He was forced to be funded by LVMH because the Ministry of Health does not want to see cheap treatments. Finally, last question, why, in the last year, have you not increased the number of resuscitation beds? The chained Duck today reveals that the number of interns in resuscitation this year – listen, ladies and gentlemen! –, will go from seventy-two to seventy-four, and when West - France asks the Prime Minister, on 5 February, whether it is necessary to dimension the services, especially those of resuscitation, in the light of a crisis that only occurs once a century, Mr Jean Castex dares to reply: "I do not believe it. The French problem is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u69	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u70	One in two: the number of patients who, four weeks after the onset of the disease, still have at least one of the initial symptoms of covid-19. In the long run, it is therefore several hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who would be involved. The motion for a resolution we are discussing today highlights this situation, which is now commonly summarized as long covid. Several weeks after the acute phase of covid-19, victims of the epidemic retain signs and symptoms that cannot be explained by another diagnosis. In some situations, complications, including pulmonary or neurological complications, extend several weeks after resuscitation. Sometimes it is general signs and symptoms that persist, most often in non-hospital patients: severe fatigue, shortness of breath, palpitations, disorders of smell and taste, skin symptoms... These situations give rise to a great deal of concern that patients and health care professionals may feel poor. We must recognize it together: in France as elsewhere, in the current state of scientific knowledge, the long covid invites us to the greatest humility in the face of a situation that cannot be fully explained. Today there are as many singularities and different situations as there are cases of long covid. Like a photo in plain darkness, the long covid is accompanied by a large number of shaded areas, which can debunk and worry both victims and clinicians. In the face of this situation, the Government is providing a threefold response that we must amplify. First of all, we need to continue to better identify the patients involved, to accompany them physically and morally. You rightly stress this in your motion for a resolution: it is, at this stage, difficult to identify the victims affected by long covid, and therefore to accompany them. As Mr. Michel Zumkeller pointed out earlier, the Government requested the HAS, which identified the three criteria for characterizing a long covid situation: to have developed an initial symptomatic form of covid and to maintain symptoms more than four weeks later, without any other diagnosis being able to explain them. A faster identification of long covid situations should help to respond to the questions and concerns of patients, and reassure them of the temporary and reversible nature of their situation. Beyond scientific skills, I can rely on the listening and commitment of health professionals to get through this sea of uncertainty to the best. Identification can also be accompanied by recognition of the occupational origin of these symptoms and compensation, as part of the procedure established by the Government in September 2020. In addition to the automatic recognition procedure, we have created a dedicated committee that takes into account all symptoms, whether respiratory or not. As you invite us in your proposal, the Government is prepared to review the evolution of its machinery and associated recommendations if scientific knowledge makes it necessary. The second priority is to achieve an individualised care that adapts to the specificities of long covid. The testimony in the gallery of Patricia Mirallès and Sylvia Pinel, like that of many of our fellow citizens, evokes this need. Once the case of long-term covid has been diagnosed, it is up to physicians to propose a personalized care project and organize the careful follow-up of each patient. To do this, everyone can rely on the detailed fact sheets that HAS has just released on February 12, which respond to the ten symptoms or groups of symptoms most frequently found. These cards are a valuable tool for optimizing patient care. For example, for taste and smell disorders, in addition to nose washing with physiological serum, HAS recommends early initiation of olfactory rehabilitation, and in the absence of improvement after two months of treatment, referral of the patient to an ENT specialist. It is planned to update and refine these recommendations at the rate of progress in knowledge. The HAS and the High Council for Public Health are engaged in this work. Beyond this medical accompaniment, I would like to remind you that patients play a key role in the success of their care, in particular through good hygiene of life. In the absence of improvement despite well-conducted treatment and patient effort, it is then up to the primary practitioner to direct the patients to the specialists concerned. Our third priority is research that will bring out the expected answers. The Government has deployed a task force that brings together the relevant central administration directorates and clinician referents. A representative of France Assos Santé now sits there to complete the state of the art and the priority points of the research. Together with our health organization, the research is now organized into a coordinated national action, structured within the National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis – ANRS. This action, led by Drs. Henri Partouche and Olivier Robineau, follows up the post-covid cohorts in order to understand the incidence and characteristics of persistent symptoms over time. Beyond these actions, we are looking at new research projects designed by professionals to enrich our knowledge, as your motion for a resolution invites us to do, Madam. A large outpatient cohort, established through a national network of general practitioners, is currently being assembled and is expected to be submitted by the end of the month to the scientific council of the new agency "ANRS emerging infectious diseases", resulting from the merger of the ANR and the consortium REACTing – RESearch and Action calling emerging infectious diseases. In particular, therapeutic intervention projects may be included. The motion for a resolution that you are defending is a direct part of this process and should invite us to maintain our full commitment to patient support. This commitment, of course, is first and foremost that of health professionals, both in hospital and in outpatient settings, and of researchers, whom I salute from this rostrum, as I have heard many speakers do before me. But it is also that of patients who fight daily to overcome their symptoms and continue their rehabilitation. It is therefore with force that the Government supports this motion for a resolution defended by all the deputies of the groups La République en marche, Dem and Agir ensemble. I would of course like to thank in particular Mr Julien Borowczyk and Mrs Patricia Mirallès for their political but also personal commitment to this fight. We will be able to move forward together to address this priority that emerged during the epidemic. Beyond the majority, I believe I can count on the unanimous commitment of the Members sitting on these benches. I believe that all the speakers have indicated that they wish to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I believe that the tabling of another motion for a resolution on the same subject by Bernard Perrut and several of his colleagues bears witness to your interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u71	What about our bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore hope that this motion for a resolution will receive all of your votes. We will thus act as a unanimous mobilization for patients with long covid and for the medical and scientific community, to which we owe so much since the beginning of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u73	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Julien Borowczyk, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u74	"Getting to know each other is the first care," La Fontaine said. It seems to me important to hear the message of the many patients who suffer from multiple forms of long covid and that it is our duty to listen when they ask for treatment. "The hope of healing is already half the cure," Voltaire added. Here again, our duty, everyone agreed, is to unite us, in a transparant manner,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u75	This also applies to the text that will be discussed tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u76	... to restore the hope of healing patients through the adoption of this motion for a resolution defended by the majority and supported by many colleagues from other groups, which I thank. This proposal is concrete. It will come to pass as soon as it is adopted, as has been said, by progress, whether it is the files of the HAS, or the recommendations formulated with a view to improving research, information, or the recognition of occupational diseases: it is through knowledge that recognition will come. To act is first to give the caregivers tools. That is precisely what our fellow citizens expect: tools to be better cared for and to heal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have heard a lot about the scope of this text. I even heard that his adoption would be just a small step. For my part, I prefer a concrete "small step" to a bill that, by some aspects, spans the expectations of patients, tramples on knowledge and jumps on foot together in error by not bringing patients the care and healing they ask for. Through this motion for a resolution, the time has come for care and healing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u77	Mr Christian Hutin, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u78	My group, myself and all the left-wing groups that have supported, and I thank them for that, the Socialist bill that will be discussed tomorrow and which is the only important text in this area – the one that is proposed to us today is nothing but lukewarm water, let us be clear – will obviously vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. It does not cost anything, it does not commit to anything and it will join all other resolutions in the archives of the National Assembly Library. By the way, she's getting to burn. It is surprising that while the parliamentary calendar is completely blocked, we are suddenly submitting a beautiful motion for a resolution on the covid-19, on the eve of the consideration of a bill that has been lamentably contested, rolled down, disassembled by the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u80	The victims and those who suffer will look at the majority – not today, because we are voting on a modest resolution, on which everyone can only agree, but tomorrow! Believe me: our bill is supported, perhaps not by the majority, because its left leg is too weak, I can understand it – I'm sure of it – but, beyond the left, by Members of the Republican Group and of all sides, who want to support the victims of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u81	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u82	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution very sincerely and voluntarily, while being aware that it is lukewarm water: it is a pious wish, but a pious Republican wish...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u83	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u84	As I pointed out during the general discussion, many patients still suffer from persistent symptoms that handicap them every day in their daily lives, their work and their social relationships. The adoption of this motion for a resolution is indispensable, but it is not enough: we must go further to ensure that these patients are taken care of in a comprehensive manner, covering both medical care, the recognition of the virus as an occupational disease – and not only for serious forms – and psychological assistance to support the sick in the face of the daily difficulties associated with this terrible medical error that has been going on for months. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, Mr Secretary of State, but we really need to go further and help these sick people in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u85	Mrs Sophie Auconia, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] As Michel Zumkeller pointed out, this motion for a resolution is obviously in the right direction: it is a first step towards the recognition of diseases over the course of covid-19. In order to organise the care of people suffering from a long covid, Michel Zumkeller will defend, as he announced, a bill aimed at creating a platform for referencing patients, which can thus be oriented towards a path of appropriate care. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u87	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u88	As they say at home, it does not eat bread: we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u90	...because we must send positive signs to those who are affected by the prolonged effects of covid-19. Pierre Dharréville stressed this during his speech: we must go further. If you seem to be resolved today, keep this beautiful resolution...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u91	For tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] ... for tomorrow, because our friends of the Socialist and related group will allow you to take the step between "think" and "do".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u93	The next speaker is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u94	The Dem Group is pleased to note that all the groups will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. When you're sick, you want to be treated first. The effort must therefore, indeed, be focused on research. I thank the Secretary of State for insisting on this point and for confirming that every effort would be made to find treatments to combat these cases of long covid. Support is also an important point – we agree. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is only in a second phase that we will have to look at the compensation of the sick: let us first work on the research. The patient who suffers doesn't want money, he wants to heal first. This resolution aims, broadly speaking, to make the sick feel better. We will then look at compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u95	We have completed the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u96	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u97	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 120 Number of votes cast 120 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 120 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u98	The next item is the discussion at second reading, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, on the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts (No. 3467, 3885).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u99	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u100	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor to support Amendment No. 3 to re-establish Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u101	The purpose of this amendment is to entrust regulated and specialized bodies in the disclosure of estates with the task of looking for the beneficiaries of some of the additional pension amounts placed with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations ( Caisse des dépôts et consignations, Caisse des dépôts et consignations). According to the Court of Auditors, 13 billion euros of additional retirement, of which some of the beneficiaries and beneficiaries are not identified, are hidden in the accounts of insurance companies or the Caisse des dépôts instead of going to the accounts of the French to which they belong automatically. As Daniel Labaronne will explain better than I am, the objective of the bill is to restore to the French this savings accumulated for years, which they have lost track of or whose insurance companies have not found beneficiaries or beneficiaries. We hope that specialized companies, sworn in by the Ministry of the Interior, will be able to access these often degraded files and process them to actively search for beneficiaries and beneficiaries. This proposal was rejected by the Senate for very questionable reasons, in particular because of the large sums that genealogists would charge to carry out this type of research. It is not a question of entrusting this task to genealogists, but to companies that will be paid only if the research is successful and on a flat-rate basis, regardless of the amount involved. In 2018, out of the €66 million in salary savings received by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations under corporate savings plans, only €11 million was returned to the French. And this is the case every year: some of the funds owed to the French remain in the accounts of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations or insurance companies. I am opposed to this being a small sum for every Frenchman. The average amount to be returned, however, amounts to 6532 euros... For my retired mom, it's not nothing. The return of this savings to the French as part of the supplementary pension is therefore a real challenge. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU and independent groups and Dem and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Article 4, which has been deleted, was intended precisely to launch an experiment involving the search for beneficiaries and beneficiaries; My amendment proposes to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u102	Mr Daniel Labaronne, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u103	You indicate in the explanatory memorandum that a large number of bodies specializing in the disclosure of succession belong to the category of regulated professions; This is not the case for genealogist companies or for foreign companies specialized in the search for private persons. On the other hand, it is true that some private research activities are monitored by the National Council for Private Supervision Activities, but there are few. Your amendment does not specify which companies could apply this experiment. I see it as a first difficulty. The second may be to entrust private companies with the task of investigating individuals without their consent, indicating their willingness to participate in this type of research. This poses a problem with the security of personal data. You also indicate in your amendment that the Government should specify by decree the modalities of this experiment. We can imagine that this task is going back to Parliament. The Eckert Act has largely addressed the problem of the disinherence of life insurance contracts. This bill should largely address the issue of the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts – we will come back to that on the occasion of your second amendment. I believe, like you, that there exists, lost in a kind of black hole, a stock of contracts in disinherence and liquidity – funeral contracts, educational annuities or money found in a safe – that no one cares about. This leads us, as legislators, to reflect on the possibility of a form of follow-up law after the passage of this bill, which itself comes after the Eckert law, in order to solve the problem of all the contracts in disinherence and the sums that sleep in the insurers' accounts. I therefore propose, as I had already done in committee, to launch a fact-finding mission on this specific issue. We need to find ways and means by which we could return some of these contracts in disinherence. It is true that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, to which they are entrusted, does not have the role of seeking the beneficiaries; As for the site ciclade.fr, whose purpose is to help people who wonder if they might not have contracts in disinherence, it is very little consulted. The same applies to the website of the Association for the Management of Information on Insurance Risk – AGIRA – which specializes in the search for funeral contracts. It is therefore necessary to think about how to advertise these sites effectively, and more generally by means of solving, once and for all, the problem of all these accounts in disinherence, as we have already done with regard to supplementary life insurance or pension contracts. It is this work of communication that awaits us; I pledge to continue with it, particularly within the framework of the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, in which I represent the National Assembly. The road map which the Minister of the Economy, Finance and Recovery entrusted to this body on the occasion of the renewal of its permanent members includes a mandate to continue the reflection on the issue of stocks of supplementary retirement contracts in disinherence. I invite you to follow the evolution of this work; In the meantime, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u104	I call on the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u105	In view of the very comprehensive explanation given by the rapporteur, my speech will not be very long. [[Applause on all benches]] [[Same movements]] Dear Mrs Auconia, I wish above all, on behalf of the Government, to pay tribute to your parliamentary work. You led him under the difficult conditions we know. We wish you the best possible recovery. On the merits, Mr. Daniel Labaronne gave all the explanations. On the form, I would like to recall the desire to reach a proper vote on this bill, in relation to the Senate version, in order to proceed with the consultations and to make the necessary implementing orders as soon as possible. This very concrete question indeed affects the daily life of the French – having myself taken care of my father's retirement, I know perfectly what we are talking about. For this reason, and for the substantive reasons set out by the rapporteur, I also ask you to withdraw your amendment; We will then be able to continue the work, initiate consultations and issue implementing decrees. Otherwise I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u106	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u107	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud]] I have heard your requests and will therefore withdraw my amendment. However, it is very important to continue this work. I'm counting on you, dear Daniel, to do it. I'll keep an eye on what's going on in this House, you can count on my pugnacity! I would like to offer you, not to all of you, not to go for a drink at the drink – even though I know that's what you were hoping for! – but to go on ciclade.fr. Thanks to digital tools, this excellent site allows us to search for contracts in disinherence, whether they are supplementary or supplementary, whether they have been held by banks or insurance companies, whether they are in your name or in the name of a family member – parents or stepparents for example. These contracts have been placed at the Caisse des dépôts et consignations while they should be returned to you. These are not always very large amounts but, whatever the amount, there is no reason for this money to be paid to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations rather than to your accounts. [[Applause]] I myself have followed this approach, which has enabled me to find an additional pension contract that concerns me. I am very happy to be able to benefit from it today. So I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u108	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the IDU and Independent Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u109	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u110	This second amendment concerns the title. As it was adopted in committee after its passage to the Senate, this proposal aims, in particular, to provide information on current and recent supplementary pension contracts. However, for these contracts, the problem has already been solved. The real problem is that of stock, as Daniel Labaronne said: a large part of the EUR 13 billion unclaimed corresponds to old contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u112	We will not be able to search for beneficiaries or beneficiaries because the corresponding files are in a very degraded state. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The current title of the bill is "Disinherence of Supplementary Retirement Contracts". With this amendment, I would like to amend it by adding the adjective "future" because the first challenge is to prevent the disinherence of future contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u114	Beyond the semantic aspects, I believe that the proposed law already addresses the problem of the disinherence of future supplementary pension contracts. You're talking about future contracts, but isn't it the stock of old contracts that we have to deal with? In the explanatory memorandum, you state that this bill will not liquidate them. But I believe that it will make it possible to liquidate perhaps not all of it, let us be modest, but in any case a large part. First of all, the fact that insurers transfer to the Union retraite public interest group, all of their information on this type of contract will result in a reduction in the number of contracts in disinherence. Indeed, the IPTF will be able to inform current and future retirees that they may be covered by supplementary pension insurance contracts. What is more, the IPTF has committed itself to include, as soon as the implementing decrees are published, a very explicit information banner on the website info-retirement.fr – in my turn to advertise! – in order to invite insured persons to inquire whether they may not have a contract. The issue of stocks will thus be addressed in part. On the other hand, it is hoped that future contracts will be better worded, that insurers will be more vigilant about information such as the address statement or the full name. Finally, the operators – insurers, GIP Union retraite – undertook to advertise on the website info-retirement.fr, also to invite potential beneficiaries of a contract to know their situation. I therefore believe that this bill really solves the problem of the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] At this stage of our discussion – a debate between Tourangeaux! – I would like to tell you, dear Sophie Auconia, that it was with great emotion that I listened to you at the moment, knowing that this is probably one of your last interventions in the Chamber. I want to express all the pleasure I have had in working with you and defending our beautiful Touraine in the National Assembly. I know that you will be extremely vigilant and that when we meet again in the Amboise market or in the Loches market, when you come to shop at my place or when I go to do my own at your place, we will discuss these supplementary pension insurance contracts again. I will then have the pleasure of explaining to you everything that has been done since today's vote and you will certainly point out to me that I have not thought about certain aspects of the problem and that I must therefore continue the work. It will always be a pleasure for me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u116	Same opinion as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u117	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u118	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 84 Number of votes cast 82 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 82 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u119	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u120	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u121	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention (No 3718, 3881).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u122	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with section 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u123	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u124	Article 18 is a major step forward in preventing the risk of occupational disintegration. Above all, I would like to explain to our fellow citizens and to my colleagues who are not specialists in these matters what is occupational disintegration: it is a reduction in the capacity to maintain themselves in employment because of the gradual deterioration of their health, whether they are of occupational origin or not. This threat of loss of employment for this reason concerns, according to a report of the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – IGAS – between 1 and 2 million employees. We know that it is essential to thoroughly reform our approach to the support and protection of these vulnerable workers in order to enable them to return to work after long-term sick leave. To this end, our thread is the same as that of the social partners which led them, in the national interprofessional agreement – ANI – to adopt preventive measures such as mid-career maintenance. It is also a question of acting upstream, as soon as possible, and that is why we have already enriched this article in committee by introducing an early detection of risks in connection with the doctor-counsel because, in terms of retention or return to employment, every day counts, and the accompaniment must be put in place very quickly. This is really the nerve of war. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, article 18 of the Act provides for re-appropriation and pre-resumption examinations carried out by the occupational doctor in the context of a work stoppage. It also provides for a liaison meeting between the employee and his employer: totally optional and organised if the employee so requests after being invited, this meeting will allow an exchange in order to prepare his return in good conditions, particularly with regard to the arrangement of working conditions. So many levers of retention in employment that I invite you to vote enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u125	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 177, which deletes Rule 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u126	Article 18, as we have just said, is in addition to the measures contained in the national interprofessional agreement. It establishes a pre-resumption appointment, renamed "contact appointment" in committee, allowing the employer and the prevention and health department at work to prepare, you say, the return of the employee to the company. But if the purpose of this appointment is to provide information on prevention to the employee, it is difficult to understand its usefulness in the light of the medical examination already in place, especially since the employee can always ask for an appointment with occupational medicine, including during his/her stay. The joint is therefore difficult to grasp; At the very least, the medical examination should precede any other appointment, starting with the liaison appointment in which the employer will participate. The risk is that this three-part discussion will touch on or address issues related to the employee's health, on the basis of information that is therefore confidential. You said at the moment, dear Catherine Fabre, that this appointment will take place only "if the employee so requests", but "after being invited to it". Despite this somewhat singular reversal, it is clear that the prerequisite is the employer's invitation. That is why we propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u127	Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u128	The liaison meeting was thus appointed on a proposal from Mrs Six in committee, in order to recall the philosophy of this Article. I will return to this and take the opportunity to respond to comments made in several of your amendments, which will then allow us to move forward a little faster. The liaison appointment gives the employee the opportunity to be informed of his rights during the stoppage of work, which, as you know, suspends the contract, so that the employer is limited in its ability to organise exchanges with the employee. It must also be noted that, for the same pathology, the duration of stopping illness can be very variable. It is therefore a matter of requiring the employer to inform the employee of his rights in order to enable him to prepare and anticipate the conditions for his return to employment. Several devices already allow this – therapeutic part-time, shift arrangements or working hours, for example – but they are very little used when they could allow much faster returns to employment, thus avoiding the possibility of making declarations of incapacity because the stoppage has prolonged and the person no longer feels able to return to his employment under the initial conditions. The challenge of the liaison meeting is, if the employee responds positively, to maintain the link and, in doing so, to facilitate the return to employment. The employer will therefore have to inform the employee of the possibility of this appointment, in which the preventive and occupational health service will participate, obviously because of its competence in this field, e.g. for its advisory role in job development. For us, this is an obligation on the employer, since the employee is not obliged to respond to the proposal made in this context since his contract is suspended during the work stoppage. There can be no question of imposing the appointment on the employee if the employer does not have access to the medical data. The scheme has already been tested, particularly in cancer institutes where, thanks to social workers, exchanges have been organised with employers. The arrangements proposed in this framework have clearly promoted a much faster return to employment and prevented job disintegration; This is indeed the purpose of this exchange, which is opened up by the employee in response to the information provided by the employer. It is not a question of confusing the liaison appointment with the pre-resumption appointment, which is of a medical nature. The liaison meeting ensures the link – thank you again, Mrs Six – between the employer and the employee during this period of work stoppage. The presence of a staff representative in this resumption of contact is therefore not warranted. Let the employees use this new option if they wish, in the context of a voluntary resumption of contact on their part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u129	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Pensions and Occupational Health, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u130	Mr Dharréville, I will obviously have an unfavorable opinion on this deletion amendment for the reasons which the rapporteur has made very clear. She also speaks of experience, given her knowledge of the company and the relations between employees and employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u131	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u132	I do not dispute yours, but I still have the right to say that she knows about it. The article responds to the need to create a link between the employer and the employee during the suspension of the employment contract in order to avoid any risk of occupational disintegration, and thus to promote retention in employment. This is really the whole philosophy of this article, which I am very supportive of.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u133	I have before me two amendments, Nos 279 and 250, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u134	If you need to be a specialist MP to discuss this article, we will have a problem. Is it necessary to be HRD to be a specialist on this issue? That is not my case, Mrs Fabre: from your point of view, I must therefore be part of your non-specialist colleagues. Nevertheless, I have been employed for a long time and, as such, I have spent visits to occupational medicine. So I could be considered to have some experience with the subject. Don't divide the deputies. You know me, I'm not against some teasing. So let me tell you this: if you like to listen to specialist Members, what a pity I have never voted for my amendments on healthcare workers! Be reassured, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment comes from the demands of the CFE-CGC, the CFDT and the FNATH, all of which, despite the consensus around the ANI, still suggest amendments. You will agree that they are specialists in the subject matter. The amendment clarifies and changes the form of the pre-resumption appointment created by the bill. There are obvious risks of pressure from the employer on the employee to return to work. Therefore, only occupational health services should have the opportunity to arrange the appointment. It is also a matter of protecting the employee by allowing him to refuse to go to the appointment without being subject to disciplinary sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u135	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 250.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u136	The aim of this amendment is to organise the meeting in two phases: first, the worker, possibly accompanied by a union representative, as we will propose in another amendment, would meet with a professional in the occupational health and prevention department, outside the presence of the employer. It is only in a second stage that the employer would participate in the meeting in order to start a dialogue, if the employee considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u137	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u138	The amendment specifies that the purpose of the liaison meeting should be only to inform the employee about measures to prevent occupational disintegration and the pre-recovery medical examination so that it does not give rise to other types of exchanges. This would avoid the pitfalls that my colleagues Caroline Fiat and Gisèle Biémouret have just mentioned. This seems to correspond to the purpose of the meeting, as you explained, Madam rapporteur. We therefore hope that this will be specified in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u140	This is a pointless clarification: unfavorable advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u141	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u142	This is an amendment of consistency: the pre-resumption visit has been renamed a liaison visit, so it seems logical to talk about a liaison appointment and not a pre-resumption appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u144	The pre-resumption appointment is a medical appointment that takes place with the occupational physician and the employer does not participate in this exchange. We hope that the two appointments will be well distinguished. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u145	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u146	The aim of this amendment by our colleague Jeanine Dubie is to provide that no consequence can be derived from the employee's refusal to request the liaison meeting provided for in this Article. If it was necessary to indicate that the appointment is on the employee's own initiative, it should also be stated that no consequences can be drawn in the event of a non-solicitation, in so far as such an interview would take place during a period during which the employment contract is suspended. The aim is to protect the employee and to avoid any form of pressure on the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u147	On Article 18, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u148	The employee, in order to guarantee his or her membership and confidence, must be able to be accompanied by a staff representative during the appointment. Since periods of medical separation are often periods of fragility, such accompaniment should be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u150	The presence of a staff representative does not seem necessary: it is not a disciplinary interview. This presence seems all the less relevant as elements concerning the employee's state of health will be able to be mentioned during the appointment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u152	Same opinion. Mr Dharréville, you are well aware of the life of the company: an employee who wishes to do so may be accompanied, including on a medical appointment, if the occupational doctor does not object, but in concrete terms I do not see why he would refuse. In real life, being accompanied is quite possible if the employee needs a presence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u153	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u154	Rather, the answers of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State fuel my scepticism about the scheme. Was it necessary to include it in the law so that the appointment could take place? As the rapporteur has just pointed out, health issues will be addressed on this occasion: from what point of view, and how far? That is the problem. If the employee wishes to be accompanied by a person, this means that he or she sees no problem in having questions about his or her health addressed in the latter's presence. The rapporteur's argument is therefore not satisfactory. If it will be possible to be accompanied, as the Secretary of State has said, let us write in the law: at least everyone will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u155	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u156	The fight against occupational disintegration must be a priority in terms of prevention and health at work. In order to guarantee membership and therefore the confidence of the employee, it seems imperative to enable him to have accompaniment and trade union expertise. This amendment by the Socialist Members was proposed by UNSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u157	I have before me two amendments, Nos 242 and 280, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u158	It must be made clear that the employee's refusal to participate in the pre-retirement appointment cannot be criticized in the event of a subsequent dispute with his employer. This refusal cannot be mentioned in the event of a dispute before the Labour Council in order to feed a procedure. We would like that clarification to be expressly included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u159	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u160	My colleague Dharréville spoke very well on the subject. This amendment is based on the requests of several trade unions and associations. In order to avoid any risk of pressure from the employer on the employee to return to work, this amendment aims to protect the employee by stating that his refusal to participate in the appointment cannot expose him to disciplinary sanctions. [[Smile]] No one wishes that the employee's refusal could lead to disciplinary sanctions: that is why we will write it in the law, in order to ensure the protection of all employees. As I have lost my voice in defending this amendment, I am sure that you will be in favour of it in order to encourage the health of Members' work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u162	Again, it is the employee who will be at the initiative of the appointment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u163	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u164	There is therefore no need to regulate the possible consequences of its refusal. Mrs Fiat, I would like to remind you that the text already provides that the occupational health and prevention service will be present at the liaison meeting. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u166	Same opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u167	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u168	Madam rapporteur, I want to make it clear that the appointment is not at the employee's initiative: it is at the employer's invitation. Since then, we have been fighting on this point. As you know, and without putting all employers in the same basket, there are invitations that you can't really refuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u169	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u170	I'm going in the same direction as Mrs. Caroline Fiat. Madam rapporteur, you say that the employee is at the initiative of the appointment: you forget that there is first the employer's invitation. You present things with a certain skill, but you must not play too much on words. Basically, we have this debate since the beginning of the examination of the text: you presuppose the existence of a form of benevolence in the company, where everything would necessarily go well. You omit in passing the bonds of subordination, the sometimes complicated situations and the power relations that may exist in the context of a certain class struggle – I am sorry to remind you at the moment when we are talking about occupational health... Your vision of the company is not entirely in line with reality. I would like to insist that the necessary protections be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u171	Amendment No 443 by Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u172	I put to the vote Rule 18, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u173	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 72 Number of votes cast 71 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 64 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u174	Mrs Fabre has the floor to support Amendment No. 559, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u175	This amendment, which I am defending on behalf of my colleagues in the Republic on the move, aims to strengthen the support of vulnerable employees in order to succeed in keeping them in employment. It extends access to the accompanying arrangements allowing employees who stop work to test a new job which is the CRPE, the contract for occupational rehabilitation in the company, and the supervised trial. These tools are now unknown: only 136 employees benefit each year from the supervised trial and 117 from the CRPE. However, these devices are effective, as can be seen from an IGAS report. The CRPE, previously reserved for disabled workers, would be extended to non-disabled workers declared unfit or at risk of incapacity. In addition, the amendment clarifies and strengthens the legal situation of the employee who has access to the CRPE in terms of maintaining his remuneration and his place in the company. [[Mr. Didier Martin applauds]] It also provides that multidisciplinary units for the prevention of occupational disintegration inform and accompany the worker wishing to access the CRPE or the supervised trial. Finally, it includes the prevention of occupational disintegration in the missions of the National Health Insurance Fund. The aim is therefore to encourage the use of measures to combat job disintegration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u177	I welcome this initiative, which strengthens the fight against job disintegration and broadens the scope of those who can benefit from the CRPE and the supervised trial. This is a step forward which, like the rest of this bill, promotes prevention in the context of occupational health and retention in employment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u179	Indeed, it is a relevant initiative, first of all because it links provisions that, although proven, are still under-employed, with the projection of these tools in the bill. You raise a question that is often asked in the health services at work as well as in companies: there are already, but sometimes too much, mechanisms: they must be opened up in order to increase their use and encourage the retention in employment. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u180	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor to support Amendment No. 543.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u181	The aim of this amendment is to enable the occupational physician and occupational health services to make use of non-technical support mechanisms, so that they have all the solutions to enable employees concerned by an occupational health problem, whether or not they are disabled, to remain in employment. These include access to training-reconversion with a view to a change of position in-house, the mobilisation of an external expert to reorganise the tasks within the department in which the person is assigned, the recruitment of a job coach, the accompaniment by an accompanying job platform, in particular in the case of mental or autistic disorders. These accompaniment solutions can be used at any time: upstream by the occupational disintegration prevention units, during the mid-career visit and during the recovery visit after stopping.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u183	We are aware of your commitment to strengthening the mechanisms for maintaining the employment of persons with disabilities. If this amendment was rejected in committee, it was because certain provisions had to be clarified. In my personal capacity, I am expressing an opinion in favour of the amendment in order to clarify this during the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u184	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u185	This article raises the issue of leadership and governance, including prevention policies, because of the multiplicity of actors involved. From this point of view, the bill provides a welcome democratic light. The question, however, seems to me to refer to public prevention policies as a whole, and to the hope that the work of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee will give rise to in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u186	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u187	This amendment should not present any difficulties since a similar provision has been adopted in Article 9. It is intended to expressly entrust a financial control role not to the board of directors but to the general meeting, which is responsible for deciding on the level of contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u189	You propose that the General Meeting of the Occupational Health and Prevention Service approve the statutes and the proposed service as well as the amount of contributions. However, as you have pointed out, the General Assembly now decides on the amount of contributions and the rate schedule by adopting, in Article 9, amendments No 300 and identical. I propose that we stay there, even though I am very aware of the work you have undertaken to organize the conditions for the exercise of the General Assembly. The amendments adopted to Article 9 seem sufficient to govern them in accordance with the commitments made in the national interprofessional agreement. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u191	The same opinion: request for withdrawal in favour of the amendments already adopted on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u192	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor to support Amendment No 81, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u193	This amendment tabled at the initiative of Typhanie Degois aims to remove the obligation for companies to be represented by representative professional organisations at national and inter-professional level in occupational health services. About one third of the enterprises belong to a professional organisation, but many of the occupational health service administrators are representatives of employers appointed by non-members of professional organisations. Limiting participation in inter-firm social and economic committees and occupational health services of some employers may reduce the variety of enterprises administered. However, the diversity of employers' and employees' representatives as administrators is one of the major strengths of occupational health services, as it allows them to adapt to all situations and to better take into account issues in different occupational sectors. It is therefore a matter of maintaining the current balance in occupational health authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u195	Since this amendment is contrary to the provisions of the national interprofessional agreement on governance, I have an unfavourable opinion. I am of course aware that the drafting of the text has not been fully completed, which is why I will present you with an amendment in a moment aimed at consolidating governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u196	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 444 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u197	The composition of the governance bodies of occupational health and prevention services at the level of a branch must reflect the representation of employers' professional organisations in the field covered by the branch in question. Many colleagues have advocated amendments aimed at strengthening governance and the fair representation of stakeholders. This amendment is therefore intended to ensure that, in occupational health services intended to cover only a multi-occupational sector, employers' representatives are appointed by the occupational organisations of employers representative at the level of this sector. In those services which are intended to cover only one branch, these representatives will be appointed by the professional organisations of representative employers at the level of the branch in question. I have heard the calls of some of you concerning a particular sector of activity – the show or others – and this precision amendment will satisfy your requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u199	Indeed, this amendment is important in that it refers to the principle of democracy; I'm very pleased with that. It is common sense to consider that the bodies that govern these services reflect the reality of the enterprises in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u200	The rapporteur's amendment No 445 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u201	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 261.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u202	This amendment aims to improve the transparency of representation in occupational health and prevention services – OSH – by ensuring that the identity, functions and means of contact of the President, Vice-President and all members of the Board of Directors are made public.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u204	Unfavorable. This amendment contains provisions which we have never had the opportunity to discuss with the partners and which could affect them. More thought is needed before a decision can be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u206	In substance, I could share your willingness to improve the relationship between occupational health services and adherent companies – I understand what motivates you – but I am not sure that your amendment falls within the scope of the law. In addition, I feel satisfied with the certification already provided for in the bill. I invite you, in turn, to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u207	I have before me two amendments which may be submitted for joint discussion. Amendment No 361 by Mrs Aina Kuric is being defended. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u208	This amendment tabled at the initiative of Valérie Beauvais aims in particular to better respect the local balances of the trade union organisations in the composition of the control committee. This provision should make it possible to better understand the issues of health at work by taking into account the economic specificities of the territories in order to ensure a better local representativeness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u210	The departmental scale that you are proposing seems superfate to us in relation to the provisions contained in the agreements concluded between the social partners. Two levels of discussion – national and regional – already exist and are sufficient. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u211	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 446 and 556 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u212	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u213	A word about the problems raised by this article, in particular the shortage of occupational doctors, which must be addressed first and foremost, given the advanced age of occupational doctors and the very low attractiveness of this sector. In addition, the use of corresponding doctors is at best a false solution, as the shortage also affects this category of city doctors. And occupational medicine requires specific training. In short, the dumping measure provided for in the article appears to be difficult to enforce without being devoid of perverse effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u214	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u215	I fear that this article will not produce the desired effect. You propose to use city medicine while she also suffers from a lack of doctors. I regret that we were not dealing with the problem upstream by training more doctors at work. I have proposed two amendments to this effect, both of which have been declared inadmissible. The first allowed graduate medical students to do part of their internship, alternating between a general medical practice and a SST, allowing them to discover the specificities of occupational medicine and thus to create vocations. This idea is taken from the report of the Senate's information mission on occupational health, presented in October 2019 by Stéphane Artano and Pascale Gruny. It appears that the attractiveness of this specialty is the underlying problem. In a 2017 report, IGAS noted that not all residential positions were filled in 2016: only 72 medical students chose to become a physician, while 150 positions were offered. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] It must be noted that, if your text does not contain any proposals on this subject, ours cannot be debated. Thus, my amendment to request a report on the subject, in order to know what measures the Government would be prepared to take to encourage the attractiveness of the profession of medical doctor to medical students, was declared inadmissible. So make a mistake: by tackling the consequences of the problem and not its causes, you do not solve it in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u216	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 14, 109, 168, 190, 321 and 549, to delete Article 21. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u217	In view of what has just been mentioned by my colleagues, I have tabled an amendment to delete this article. Occupational doctor is a profession that requires training and experience of what is happening in the company, what is happening there, and of the work itself. This desire to call on doctors whose specialty is not the one is precisely a form of negation of this specialty; It accredits the idea that it would be enough to complete a number of formalities to become a doctor at work, while this requires – the doctors at work know – knowledge, know-how and experience. Secondly, this is not a solution because the medical desert map of occupational doctors will overlap with that of general practitioners. However, we remember a measure adopted by this House, which we had already fought against and whose application has not at all proved its effectiveness, aimed at allowing city doctors to carry out the information and prevention visit of apprentices in place of occupational doctors. Finally, this measure will, in most cases, be impossible to apply, because occupational health services, occupational physicians, occupational health service managers will not spend their time running after city doctors to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u218	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u219	This amendment is intended to delete Article 21, which provides for the possibility of using corresponding doctors, i.e. liberal general practitioners, to contribute to the follow-up of workers, other than enhanced medical follow-up, by carrying out the information and prevention visit. As our colleagues Dharréville and Six have pointed out, occupational medicine is a specialty: it cannot be accessed without training. However, the proposed law does not specify the modalities of training in occupational medicine for these doctors. As I said in the general discussion, there is indeed a problem of shortage, it may be necessary to wait until the numerus apertus produces its effects in order to find doctors specialized in occupational medicine and other specialties. In the meantime, the delegation of tasks to occupational health nurses, who are at the heart of occupational medicine and are trained to do so, could be a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u220	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u221	While there is consensus in the bill, this section is a misconception. First, it will weaken the specialty of occupational medicine by devaluing it, once again, while it lacks recognition and rather it would be necessary to strengthen the emoluments of occupational doctors, in order to make their specialty more attractive. Secondly, it is a false good idea to give the hand to city doctors who, if they are doctors in their own right, are absolutely not trained in this specialty: they have a good knowledge of the medical part, but none of the business world. However, it is not just a few hours of training that will be able to fill this gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u222	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u223	I understand very well the purpose of this article, which is to respond to the shortage of doctors at work – which I mentioned earlier – by opening up the possibility of using corresponding medical practitioners to contribute to the monitoring of workers, to the exclusion of strengthened medical follow-up. This measure transposes one of the ANI's proposals. However, it will not solve the problem of medical demography: according to the Order of Physicians, the medical desert map of occupational doctors is superimposed on that of general practitioners. The training of city doctors in the performance of the duties of occupational doctors is therefore not necessarily a good idea, especially since this will be optional and the city doctors are not really in favour of it. Therefore, this proposal is likely to remain a dead letter. Let us instead propose concrete solutions that will represent real progress, such as the delegation of tasks to occupational health nurses, which seems more relevant and which some colleagues, in particular Mrs Dubie, have mentioned. We are also at risk of contributing to the deterioration of the profession. There is no improvisation of the occupational doctor, who takes a global approach to the employee in the enterprise, both in his or her occupation and in the context in which he or she practises it. Even if the city doctor was trained, he cannot take all these factors into account, precisely because it is not his profession. As MP Bernard Bouley pointed out in our committee debates, city doctors were asked to carry out medical examinations of apprentices. But no medical check has been made!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u224	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u225	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u226	I agree with all the previous comments. I would like to make an additional and somewhat specific point. While the bill as a whole is making major advances welcomed by all, this article, which we all feel is profoundly useless, is moving away from the spirit of the text. It seems to me more appropriate to rely on other health professionals, particularly occupational health nurses, in accordance with the spirit of the bill that is intended to be effective and effective. We are going to overload this text with measures that will not have any real impact, making the law chatter when it should be useful. Yet, God knows how much we need to simplify labour and public health codes so that they are more accessible and more understandable in order to be, at the end of the day, better applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u227	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor to support Amendment No. 549.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u228	Forgive this sudden peaceful and medical bombardment against article 21. I agree with everything my colleagues have just said. I am therefore opposed to the introduction into the organization of occupational medicine of corresponding doctors, namely medical doctors who are not occupational doctors. Occupational medicine is at the crossroads between a knowledge of the specific state of health of the employee, which requires strictly medical competence, and that of the workplace, which requires the follow-up of training in occupational medicine, including teachings in very specific fields such as toxicology and law. It involves moving around the workplace to understand the environment in which the employee operates, the work tasks assigned to him or her, the risks to which he or she is exposed, the personal protective equipment he or she carries, the tools and machines he or she uses. Care medicine is also being undermined. Medical deserts make it difficult for a patient to find a treating physician. As a result, it will be very difficult to delegate occupational health visits to practitioners themselves who face a very large workload. Let us respect the expertise of each trade. This reform is not desirable in the interests of workers or of general practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u229	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u230	We are talking about the corresponding physician practitioner whose intervention, as you have pointed out on several occasions, aims to solve problems already well identified in many reports, such as the obvious question of the shortage of doctors, the lack of recognition of this specialization, an ageing population and, of course, a need for reinforcements. While in 2014 there were 5,000 occupational physicians, or 4100 FTEs – full-time equivalents – in 2019 there were 4500, or 3700 FTEs, representing a 10% decrease in the number of occupational physicians in five years. As the demography of occupational doctors is decreasing very sharply, we need to provide answers to this situation, which we have begun to do in other laws, notably in the law "Ma santé é2022", which provides for the end of the numerus clausus allowing the gradual renewal of generations. With regard to the attractiveness of the profession which Mrs Six rightly wishes to encourage, the provisions of this bill will strengthen it. Thus, the division between public health and health at work will enable prevention to be strengthened and health issues to be identified in order to support them as a whole, particularly in the professional sphere. It also aims to ensure greater recognition of occupational physicians: doctors will gradually learn to work increasingly in partnership with occupational doctors in the territorial occupational health communities – CPTS; the introduction of the third time spent in the workplace will enable them to be present in the workplace and to make them truly recognise the competence they bring to enterprises; Finally, the enlargement of the multidisciplinary teams, which the bill accompanies, will also contribute to this. The place of the corresponding physician practitioner is an additional tool in this process. The draft law provides for their initial training, in order to secure the mechanism, which will be specified by regulation. The physician practitioner does not intervene in the context of the enhanced medical follow-up and works in partnership with the occupational physician. In this way, the scheme is part of a set of measures designed to bring attractiveness to these professions. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u232	When I listened to the various speakers, I thought that I didn't see how the fact that there were corresponding medical practitioners would reveal a form of disinterest in occupational medicine or non-recognition. In reality, it is exactly the opposite: what is proposed is nothing more than support, under very clear conditions. The Council of State has also given its opinion on this subject. This article therefore responds to all the concerns that you have expressed – and that we can, after all, hear. Same opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u233	Identical amendments Nos 417 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 475 by Mr Richard Ramos, 511 by Mr Gérard Cherpion and 528 by Mr Dominique Da Silva are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u234	Mrs Cécile Delpirou has the floor to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u235	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that appropriate individual medical follow-up, reserved for disabled persons, is provided by a doctor at work. If simple medical follow-up can be provided by a corresponding doctor, appropriate follow-up must remain the prerogative of the occupational doctor. Indeed, thanks to his overall knowledge of the company, he is most able to take the appropriate measures and to accompany the disabled worker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u237	Why am I against this amendment to exclude persons with disabilities from the monitoring of workers by the corresponding medical practitioners? Not only because such a measure would make the system we want to introduce more complex, but also because I am convinced that we need to change our paradigm and accept that people with disabilities are primarily part of the common law. These, of course, can be followed by doctors at work for disabilities requiring specific support, but the basic principle must, in my view – and I know that many of us share this point of view – be to stick to common law. That is why I give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment. I repeat, I believe that we must first think "common law" before thinking "adaptation".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u238	Identical Amendments Nos 418 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 477 by Mr Richard Ramos and 512 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u239	Amendment No 447 by Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur, is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u240	Very favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u241	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u242	It is intended to provide that no one may be a corresponding physician practitioner for more than five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u244	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u246	I see nothing that justifies a time limitation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u247	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u248	It is intended to clarify the nature of the decree in the Council of State to be adopted in order to determine how the provisions contained in article 21 are to be applied. In view of the importance of the issues at stake, it seems necessary to clarify in the text that this decree must define the rules of incompatibility of delegation of tasks between the occupational doctor and the corresponding practitioner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u250	Our discussions with the Council of State on the corresponding physician practitioner focused on the difficulty of combining this role with that of treating physician. In order to respond to the concern raised by the Council of State and to secure the legal framework, an amendment by Didier Martin was adopted in committee. I believe that it is appropriate not to go further by adding additional rigidity which would probably be detrimental to the proper application of the device. That is why I give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u251	Identical amendments Nos 420 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 482 by Mr Richard Ramos and 513 and by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u252	I call Mrs Cécile Rilhac to support Amendment No. 132, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u253	I support him on behalf of my colleague Stéphane Claireaux, Member of Parliament for Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, and several ultramarine co-signatories belonging to different political groups. Ultramarine territories are particularly affected by the discontinuity of occupational medicine. Indeed, some of them are dependent on the presence of a single occupational physician and are deprived of this basic service at the time of his absence, for health reasons or when he is undergoing training in metropolitan France. The aim of this amendment is therefore to anticipate the absence of practitioners in landlocked territories and medical deserts by introducing automatic replacement arrangements. This anticipation is essential to enable all French workers to be properly protected against the deterioration of their health at work and to secure local economic life, in this case ultramarine. Employers incur civil and criminal liability if, in ignorance of the law, they retain an employee who has not been able to benefit from the consultation of compulsory work medicine and an accident occurs. It would be too easy to address this discontinuity problem through the simple accountability of local agencies. This amendment is therefore also intended to accompany these bodies in the performance of their tasks by making compulsory use of a relevant legal framework. In practical terms, the necessary anticipation of the discontinuity of occupational medicine in the overseas territories and medical deserts could be achieved through the application of a mandatory protocol or a framework agreement between the bodies in charge of occupational medicine and a reference doctor available for consultation in teleconsultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u255	Mrs Rilhac, you have the voice, which we can hear perfectly, of some colleagues wishing to question the reality of the overseas territories. We agree that the specificities of these territories often require adjustments. The existing provisions already provide for the continuity of occupational medicine, so the provision that you propose seems superfétoire – Mr.Secretariat will also give you details. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u257	In agreement with the rapporteur, I confirm that the alternative arrangements that you wish to include in the text already exist; These provisions are of right. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, although it may be difficult for you to accept it since you support it on behalf of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u258	Mrs Rilhac, is the amendment retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u259	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u260	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u261	This amendment seems entirely relevant to me, since it introduces the new concept of automatic replacement arrangements in the absence of a doctor at work. You say that this provision already exists, but I don't see it anywhere in our law. The aim of this amendment is therefore to create something different. I would add that this proposal by Mr Claireaux illustrates perfectly the difficulty, if not the impossibility, of implementing the provisions of Article 21, which we wanted to delete. If you live in Polynesia or New Caledonia, you can get up early to find a corresponding practitioner! I would therefore like you to explain why you consider this amendment to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u262	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u263	I would like to take advantage of the start of the examination of a new article to say that, in essence, what our compatriots feel is the feeling of a lack of public health, the feeling that they cannot be treated and taken into account individually as they have been for several decades. In this respect, I find it unfair to blame the present majority for anything that has not been done by the previous ones. Indeed, it is a real collapse, not to say a crushing of the medicine that we have committed. We didn't have the means, you will tell me; There was no money in public space! From now on, we don't know if we'll pay it back. In principle, we pay back someday. You always pay your taxes! Someone said, "Bobs are like taxes, you always pay them. We have made it a very big one by letting this feeling of being taken care of throughout his life fade away – not to enjoy it or to do too much, by the way, but simply to know where we are. Returning to occupational medicine, I see in my constituency – in Oloron-Sainte-Marie, in Pau or in Mauléon-Licharre – that practitioners of this specialty are brought together in Pau. So the field is deserted while some occupational physicians agreed to consult for a few hours at one place before going to another. The Secretary of State has just recalled, quoting the statistics: these doctors may not be numerous enough, they do what they can. I think we should find the fundamentals...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u264	Thank you, my colleague. Identical amendments Nos 399 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 421 by Mr Richard Ramos and 507 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u265	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u267	I will first give a further answer to Mrs Chapelier, who was not aware of the provisions for the replacement of the occupational physician. I therefore refer it to Article R. 4623-15 of the Labour Code, which provides that when the duration of absence exceeds three months, the replacement of the doctor at work is lawful. As far as these amendments are concerned, I have the same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u268	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 328, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 562.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u269	The obligation of the occupational doctor to devote one third of his time in the workplace is rooted in a 1979 decree. It is therefore a very earlier text than the Act of 17 January 2002 which made the multidisciplinarity of occupational health teams mandatory, the Decree of 2003 on the conditions of appeal to the competences of workers in occupational risk prevention, and the Decree of 2003 which specified the obligation of multidisciplinarity. Article R. 4624-2 of the Labour Code, as amended by Article 4 of the Decree of 11 July 2014 laying down various provisions relating to occupational medicine, provides that "actions on the working environment shall be carried out: in enterprises with an autonomous occupational health service, by the occupational doctor, in collaboration with the services responsible for the protection of employees and the prevention of occupational risks in the undertaking; in companies which join a multi-employer occupational health service, by the multidisciplinary occupational health team, under the guidance of the occupational doctor and within the framework of the objectives laid down in the multiannual annual project provided for in Article L. 4622-14". Given the number of occupational physicians, it seems essential to give them the ability to rely on multidisciplinary occupational health teams or the services responsible for employee protection and occupational risk prevention activities in the company to carry out part of their duties in the workplace. Doctors at work should be given the flexibility to organize themselves as they wish. My amendment thus seeks not to lock these practitioners in an obligation for which they alone would be responsible, the sub-amendment by my colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille making matters clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u270	I call Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille to support sub-amendment No. 562.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u271	[[Smile]] It is the result of collaborative work – we work together in the Dem Group. It is important that occupational physicians spend one third of their time in the workplace, but we know very well that their number does not always allow them to do so. We may include this provision in the text as a declarative, but we know that it cannot be applied. When we lack doctors at work, would we place an extra burden on them? It is therefore important for multidisciplinary teams to be able to contribute to this time spent in the workplace, so that this mission is carried out well, which is most important.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u272	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u273	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u274	Mrs de Vaucouleurs, I would like to pay tribute to your attendance during the examination of the text in committee and the hearings we conducted, during which you, like us, heard how essential and requested by the actors concerned was the allocation of one third of the working time of doctors working in companies. I would like to recall that the duties of the occupational doctor are to coordinate and animate the multidisciplinary team, to ensure the preparation and updating of the business card, to identify and measure risks, to accompany the culture of prevention, to participate in the social and economic committee, to contribute to training at specific risks and to animate information and awareness campaigns. Thanks to a 2019 IGAS report and presence studies, it is shown that the time spent by occupational physicians in the workplace is very variable, for various legitimate reasons, including demographics. The Presanse Association has identified an average of 1.6 actions per week in companies, demonstrating how essential it is to increase the time spent in the workplace. In order to nurture this culture of prevention, which we call for, the third time must be effectively respected. We create different devices to go in this direction: we have just talked about the corresponding practitioner, and we will soon address the issue of nurses in advanced practice. I welcome the participation of the multidisciplinary team; I would also point out that in committee we have opened up the possibility for physiotherapists to be part of it, and we will be talking about occupational therapists later on. The support it provides to the occupational doctor is essential to enable him to act in the workplace, thus complying with Article R. 4624-4 of the Labour Code, which provides that at least "one hundred and fifty half days of effective work each year" are devoted to actions in the workplace. We reaffirm this principle by including it in the law: this third time must be respected, it must be a commitment; and we have been asked to secure it. It should be excluded from coordination time, particularly with the CPTS. Opinion against both the amendment and the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u276	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u277	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u278	INA stressed the importance of this third time in the workplace, that is true, but also the shortage of staff and the need to use all available resources. It seems to me complicated to impose this third time on doctors, and it would seem far more reasonable to ask for coordination and mobilization of multidisciplinary teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u279	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 330.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u280	I would have withdrawn that amendment if the first had been better understood. It aims to insist on the other two thirds of the doctor's time, during which he must also participate in the various internal bodies of the company and in the territorial coordination bodies. I therefore propose that paragraph 3 be supplemented by the words "without prejudice to the time devoted to medical visits, which may not be less than 50% of the doctor's working time".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u281	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u282	Section 23 deals with occupational health nurses. To date, they have many prerogatives, but do not have their own status. However, they are now central players in occupational, self-employed and inter-firm health services – ATSC and ITST. The occupational health nurse is closest to the workers: his presence is compulsory in certain companies, such as industrial establishments with 200 to 800 employees. Between the beginning of 2016 and 2019, the number of nurses practising in occupational health services has risen sharply: 60% in four years. They are the living force of these services. To become a health nurse at work, the nurse must undergo specific training. However, it appears that these formations are deteriorating and very heterogeneous depending on the territory. This obligation is not even explicitly enshrined in the current law. This article gives the occupational health nurse a status. "Specific occupational health training" will be required; if not acquired at the time of hiring, the employer undertakes to ensure that the nurse undergoes training within 12 months of recruitment and before the end of the contract. In line with the recommendations of the social partners, included in the ANI, we also wish to allow nurses to practice in advanced practice within the prevention and health services at work, in order to fulfil more tasks. This will allow for a better division of tasks. [[Catherine Fabre applauds]] This article is therefore fundamental to improving the quality of monitoring of workers. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u283	On Article 23, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u284	With this article, you put us in front of a cornelian choice. Occupational health nurses already exist and play an important role. But we don't have nurses. We would all like many people to dream of, and train in, this beautiful profession. But, despite Segur, it doesn't work, and vocations – a word I don't like – have not multiplied... In any case, there is little movement at nursing training institutes – IFSI. So what can we do? We issued a report on EHPADs which found that we lacked nurses; We issued a report on psychiatry that didn't say anything else. This is a real dilemma: what priorities should be set? Where should nurses be directed? These are choices I don't like. Are occupational health nurses important? Yes. Is this the priority today? I ask you the question very honestly. We are in the midst of a pandemic, and resuscitation beds are closed administratively for lack of nurses available: I take the responsibility to say that I do not think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u285	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 204 and 322. Amendment No 204 by Mr Paul-André Colombani is being defended. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u286	Thank you, Secretary of State, for lifting my doubts earlier. On the contrary of Mrs Fiat, I would like to welcome Articles 23 and 24, which are a real breath of oxygen for health at work, which is so difficult to recruit today and which will do so more easily tomorrow. They value these professions, particularly through the multidisciplinary exercise that health professionals expect today. I congratulate you and thank you on behalf of these professions, which find their account here. However, improvements can still be made. I suggest here that this training, which will be offered within a relatively short time after a job as a health nurse at work, be sanctioned by a university degree. I had presented my arguments in committee: this diploma will allow a real recognition, in particular salary, for the nurse who has completed this supplementary training. Without a university degree, despite the decree in the Council of State provided for here, we risk finding very heterogeneous formations, with strong territorial disparities. A diploma thus seems necessary in order to really sanction this new training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u288	You have repeatedly asked us about the nursing profession and its evolution, to which you are extremely attentive; we share your vigilance, and we are convinced of the enrichment that the presence of nurses in advanced practice will represent for the multidisciplinary team. During the hearings, in which you participated widely, the actors called on us to work on training, on its organisation and on its content, because, you are right, the disparities in this area are great. You are right, the training of occupational health nurses needs to be harmonized and its content reviewed. If we refer on this point to a decree in the Council of State, it is because this is the right level to raise these issues. But believe that we share your vigilance on this issue considered by all to be of major importance. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u289	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u290	I trust you, Madam rapporteur, to be attentive to this need for a diploma. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u291	Mr Lassalle, would you like to withdraw Amendment No 204?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u292	I thank our colleague for his wonderful ode to our nurses and nurses, whose work...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u293	I am sorry to interrupt, but my question was only about the possible withdrawal of Amendment No 204. Should I put it to the vote? I have not yet called for the following amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u294	[[Smile]] I know we want to save time, but I want to defend this amendment, Madam President. It took me a long time to write it! Nurses have a lot of work to do, and everyone likes it. However, with Amendment No 552 corrected, I propose to insert, after paragraph 10, the following paragraph: " Occasional visits at the request of the employee or at the request of the employer or at the request of the doctor may not be delegated to the occupational health nurse. Indeed, in order to guarantee medical confidentiality and protect the employee's file, it is essential that this work be done by the occupational doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u295	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u296	There is, as has been said, a shortage of health nurses at work, but more generally of nurses. Moving towards harmonization of training is probably a good idea, but plans will have to be made to relaunch the social elevator in the field of health: healthcare workers who have some experience, for example, must be able to consider training in order to gain access to these professions. Other people, who are undergoing retraining or job search as a result of the crisis, may also be directed in this direction, and those who will be engaged in care-aide training can be assured that they will later be able to move towards these new jobs. We can only get out of the current difficult situation from the top. Harmonizing the level of training is very good, but it is necessary to take advantage of it to open up these training courses much more widely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u297	Amendment No 552 as corrected has just been defended by Mr Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u298	I put rule 23 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u299	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 71 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u300	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Article 23, three of which, Nos 325, 191 and 15, can be discussed together. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u301	It is very important because it aims to give health nurses at work the status of protected employees. They do not currently benefit, unlike doctors, while they may be under real pressure from employers with whom they are in conflict. This is an iterative request from health nurses and their representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u302	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u303	It is similar to Mrs. Chapelier's. Nurses, who play an important role in occupational health and bring real added value, need protection. Even if the NIA did not provide for it, national representation must address the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u304	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u305	It also aims to make health nurses at work protected employees, in accordance with proposal 35 of the report which I drafted on behalf of the committee of inquiry chaired by our colleague Julien Borowczyk "on occupational diseases and pathologies in industry (chemical, psychosocial or physical risks) and the means to be used for their elimination". We have a great opportunity here to bring this proposal to fruition, which was the result of many discussions, particularly with the staff concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u306	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u307	They are intended to give occupational health nurses the status of a protected worker. This is obviously an important subject, and we share your concerns, even though we know the complex issue, especially in view of the consequences – which you know – that such recognition would have. In the course of the preparatory work for this bill and the discussions with the partners, we have not substantiated our thinking on this subject, on which our expertise is therefore insufficient. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u309	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u310	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u311	Occupational health nurses are excellent experts, particularly in the handling of chemicals to which workers are exposed in factories. In order to recognise this great expertise, and to guarantee their necessary independence from employers, consideration must be given to granting protected work status. I would like to have the opinion of the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u312	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u313	Madam rapporteur, I have noted that you are paying particular attention to these amendments. You are aware that from the moment such missions are assigned to occupational health nurses, they must be allowed to be protected. This point should not be left behind, hidden under the carpet. Let us therefore protect health nurses at work in the performance of their duties; The Liberties and Territories Group will in any case support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u314	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u315	I leave it to Mr Dharréville, who also wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u316	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u317	I will not withdraw my amendment, which, in my view, is the indispensable follow-up to Article 23. Let's go to the end of the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u318	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u319	Madam President, I wish I had spoken before the last vote, but you have forgotten me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u320	But I gave you the opportunity to speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u321	Yes, but before Mr. Dharréville, when he had asked for it first, I left it to him out of courtesy. Well, that's okay. The occupational health nurse must also benefit from the third time, i.e. spend one-third of his/her time in the workplace. The nurses concerned have very often told me of their impression of conducting visits to the channel, especially when it comes to teleconsultations; In any case, this is what I was able to collect at the two sites of the CMIST – inter-company medical centre for occupational health – Alès-Lozère. Sanctuary of a third time in the workplace of employees would allow them to organize themselves differently, and to better work with the multidisciplinary team, for example with the physiotherapists, who are now part of it, to set up action protocols for the organisation of staff work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u323	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u324	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u325	Ms Mauborgne asked me earlier about the advisability of granting protected employee status to occupational health nurses. These act under protocol of the doctor working – it is therefore only this one who bears responsibility and must be protected. Mrs Chapelier, I am basing myself on my experience of working life – which others may certainly take advantage of – and on my visits, over the last six months, to occupational health services, whether autonomous or inter-firm, to say that nurses already have the freedom to act in the workplace that you are asking for. I have recently visited Dijon, in the constituency of the President of the Committee on Social Affairs, and I can give you examples of inter-firm services where the two occupational health nurses are regularly involved in the multidisciplinary team, alongside the occupational doctor. So this dynamic already exists. I would like the scheme to remain flexible, because I have found that the realities are not the same in Dijon, Soissons, Merck in Molsheim, or in other companies. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u326	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 16, 59, 186, 326, 343, 544 and 129, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 16, 59, 186, 326 and 343 are identical. Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u327	It is intended to insert the words ", the nurse in advanced practice," after the second occurrence of the word "work", in the first paragraph of article L. 4624-1 of the Labour Code. While I welcome the opportunity to practice in advanced practice for occupational health nurses, this change would make it possible to better recognize such a specialty. As is well known, advanced practice allows nurses to exercise more advanced missions and skills, sometimes previously assigned to physicians. It thus provides an answer to the lack of doctors at work, which, despite the various measures we have taken, starting with the abolition of the numerus clausus, will persist in the coming years, as has been said on several occasions. Advanced practice also makes it possible to better recognise the careers and skills of the paramedical workers concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u328	Mr Sacha Houlié's identical amendments No 59 and Mr Christophe Naegelen's 186 were defended. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u329	I would simply add that, since section 23 will allow the possibility of advanced occupational health practice to be included in the Public Health Code, it seems appropriate to include the words "the nurse in advanced practice," in the Labour Code, in order to endorse the place these professionals will occupy in the multidisciplinary teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u330	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u331	In the continuation of yesterday's adoption of amendments on nurses of advanced practice, which you accepted, the rapporteur, it would be logical to adopt them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u332	Amendments Nos 544 by Mr Thierry Michels and 129 by Mr Benoit Simian are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u333	They seem to me already satisfied by the first paragraph of article L. 4624-1 of the Labour Code. I therefore request their withdrawal; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u334	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor to support Amendment No. 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u335	I continue my reasoning: if the position in question is not the subject of an SIR – reinforced individual follow-up – initial and periodic visits should be able to be delegated to a nurse, subject to the drafting of a protocol by the occupational doctor. I therefore agree with the concerns expressed by others. Accompaniment and training of the nurses concerned is necessary. At present, only the occupational doctor can guarantee medical confidentiality and protect the employee's file – I hope that this faculty will be maintained for a long time; It is therefore essential, I would stress, that the latter draft a protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u336	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u337	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u339	Mr Lassalle, your request is satisfied, since Article R. 4623-31 of the Labour Code already provides for delegations under protocol conditions, as I indicated earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u340	Certainly, but no one knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u341	I ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u342	On Article 24, I have a request from the Group of the Republicans for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 327.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u343	It aims to integrate occupational therapists into multidisciplinary occupational health teams. We are all pleased with the introduction, in committee, of the profession of masseur-kinesitherapist in the multidisciplinary team. The essential work of health prevention of occupational therapists, especially for the setting up of workplaces, makes it entirely legitimate and logical to do the same for this new profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u345	We have heard your call, linked to the issue of multidisciplinarity, on occupational therapists. We believe that occupational therapists obviously have a place in multidisciplinary teams where they can provide interesting answers, particularly on musculoskeletal disorders. We thank you for this contribution and give a favourable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u346	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u347	Article 24 provides for the abolition of the task assigned to occupational doctors, the facilitation and coordination of the multidisciplinary occupational health team to be replaced by a system of delegation of tasks. However, the role of the occupational physician as coordinator is essential. He is the only player on the team who enjoys a protected status and professional independence within the companies allowing him to defend the employees in their asymmetric relationship with the employer. Removing this mission will therefore undermine the independence of occupational physicians and strengthen the potential subordination of occupational health services vis-à-vis employers. In addition, the occupational physician organizes the animation of health teams with a different prism than that of a manager. The occupational physician must maintain this preponderance, which requires team animation skills. This change made by Article 24 leaves us very dubious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u348	It's a little short as a debate, it would have deserved some answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u349	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u350	The physician may delegate the facilitation and coordination of the multidisciplinary health team, but, as he or she performs a public health role, he or she can only do so to a person who has received training in public health or health education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u351	I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 369, 422, 487, 514 and 529. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 369.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u352	It aims to consolidate Article 24, the result of discussions between the social partners: their desire to combat the shortage of doctors results in the creation of a network of corresponding medical practitioners. I wonder if there is a need for occupational health services to be part of this process. The amendment thus seeks to remove the impression left by the text of the optional nature of this approach. Occupational health services would only go to city medicine if they did not have sufficient medical resources. City doctors would integrate the network of corresponding medical practitioners on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u353	Amendments Nos 422 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 487 by Mr Richard Ramos are being defended. I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 514.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u354	Our colleague Stéphane Viry has just mentioned an important subject, which has been the subject of several amendments by Members of the Republican Group. These identical amendments aim to ensure that inter-company occupational health and prevention services are, if they do not have sufficient medical resources, a network of corresponding medical practitioners to respond to business demands. It is necessary to clearly translate into law this provision of the ANI, which provides for new modalities for the implementation of medical follow-up with a view to making it effective, in particular through the use of city doctors. We have already dealt with this in the House: if occupational health services do not have sufficient human resources to carry out this follow-up, it is important that voluntary doctors can do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u355	Amendment No 529 by Mr Dominique Da Silva is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u356	These amendments are intended to require preventive and occupational health services to organise cooperation with city doctors if they do not have the necessary resources. This constraint is not in the spirit of this bill. We have already voted on a number of provisions that are in line with your wishes. I therefore propose to stay there and give an unfavorable opinion to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u357	I have before me three amendments, Nos 316, 247 and 112, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u358	Coherence and effectiveness of the service provided by inter-firm occupational health and prevention services implies respect for a general organisation whose responsibility lies with the director of the service. It is not a question of opposing the principle of delegation granted to the doctor of work, but of organizing it within the framework of the service project and with respect for the multidisciplinary team. This amendment provides for the inclusion of all the activities of occupational doctors, with due regard for their independence, in the general functioning of the inter-firm occupational health and prevention service as defined in its draft service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u359	Mr Bernard Bouley has the floor to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u360	Since the opening of the debates, I have been stuttering that common sense and coherence are needed. It is also necessary to ensure that the law is enforced by all and everywhere. It seems to me that the Government agrees with these precepts. The common sense of section 24 is reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. The purpose of this amendment is to give the necessary consistency for the effective application of this Article. In its current drafting, it opens the door to disorganization, conflicts and operational difficulties within the STSPs. Enhancing the scope of service projects and the role of the directors of STPs is incompatible with the ability of health personnel to apply, as they wish, a function provided for in the proposed service on which certification will be based. It is inconsistent and counterproductive for an idea that has my consent. I respect the technical independence that must be enjoyed by doctors at work, but the will or refusal to delegate this or that task must not belong to a single task. Whether or not to mobilize the skills of the members of the multidisciplinary team cannot be the responsibility of a single member of the multidisciplinary team. These decisions must fall within the scope of the draft service, which is coordinated by the Medical and Technical Committee and approved by the Joint Board of Directors: this is legitimate in view of the responsibilities of the members of the Joint Board of Directors. That's what I suggest you decide tonight. In many ways, this text is in the public interest, but could we reasonably vote on it as it bears the seeds of the disorganisation of the SPSTs which it wants to strengthen?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u361	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u362	Would we be able to pass a law which, by the disparity of operation it would cause, would create inequalities of treatment between employees and companies? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] It is in order to avoid these inconveniences that I invite you to adopt the common-sense amendment that I submit to you. It does not contravene the ANI, the opinion of the Council of State, or the medical independence defended by the National Council of the Medical Association.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u363	All right, Mr. Bouley!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u364	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u365	Mr Bouley has just defended his amendment very well. I support his argument and his insistence on this essential element of the service project. The latter and the organization of the structure must remain under the authority of the person who directs the entire service. In the first sentence of paragraph 6, "a decree in the Council of State specifies the conditions under which the occupational doctor may delegate certain tasks under his responsibility [...]", we wish to replace "his responsibility" with the words "his medical authority and within the framework of a general operation defined in the draft service". Indeed, if each doctor chooses individually to assign tasks to certain people and not to others, this will create confusion and run counter to the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u366	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u367	I would like to stress the richness of the work we have done with, in particular, Mrs Dubié, MM. Christophe and Bouley, on the organization of the multidisciplinary team: I know that we share the desire to strengthen the effectiveness of the multidisciplinary team and the position of the doctor of work, who has a skill that nobody ignores. We wanted to give the director of the occupational health service a managerial dimension, which allows him to organize the team and certain activities according to the service project. This position seems to us to be most important for the quality and dynamics of occupational health services. We have also heard your comments and those of the Council of State on the need to secure this organisation: we have tabled a first amendment which provides that the occupational doctor should delegate the tasks under his responsibility. The facilitation and coordination of multidisciplinary teams in the management of employees must be the responsibility of the occupational doctor. A second amendment, adopted in committee, aims to ensure that professions whose working conditions fall within the scope of the public health code fulfil the tasks in question within the scope of the competences of health professionals provided for in that code. These arrangements secure the organization of the team and enable everyone to exercise their responsibilities. They are directed towards the objective, which we share, of harmonising and improving the quality of the offer which we discussed in the examination of Article 8. The wording we have produced seems to me to reflect the current article R. 4623-14 of the Labour Code, which governs the delegation of the tasks referred to here. For these reasons, although everyone's proposals converge towards the same objective, I give an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u368	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u369	The article contains provisions that refer to a decree. I have already said, particularly at the time of the presentation of the text, that I am fully prepared to discuss this decree with the Committee on Social Affairs if its chairman deems it useful. Indeed, I wish to remove the concerns that have been expressed. The rapporteur said very well that there would be elements relating to the quality of service and the search for a homogeneous organisation in the certification process. This should, with my proposal to come and discuss the regulations in committee, reassure you. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u370	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 371, 426, 489 and 516. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 371.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u371	I understand that we will find it difficult to get you moving on Article 24. That is a shame because if we share the spirit and the objective, as our colleague Bernard Bouley pointed out, their transcription in your bill seems to us to be risky and leaves room for doubt and uncertainty for several workers in the field of occupational health. It is never good for the preparation and drafting of a text to be based on bad foundations. There are many skills in an occupational health service: they are technical, legal, social and, obviously, medical. Their mobilization is organized in a service project designed to ensure their coordination. It seems to us delicate that the delegation should not be strictly framed. The wording of the amendment does not alter the substance of the text, but it consolidates, clarifies and reassures. That is why I propose that you deliver an opinion in favour of its adoption, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u372	Amendments Nos 426 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 489 by Mr Richard Ramos are being defended. I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u373	In the same spirit, it aims to include all the activities of occupational doctors, respecting their technical independence, in the general functioning of the occupational health and prevention service defined within the service project, and to ensure that the basic offer is actually made for the benefit of employers and employees. The drafting of Article 24 refers to the facilitation, coordination and delegation to members of the multidisciplinary team by the occupational doctor alone. Of course, we prefer this new supplementary wording, which makes it possible to clarify and bring its full force to the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u374	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u375	These amendments seem to me to represent a step backwards from Article L. 4623-14 of the Labour Code. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u376	It's a little easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u377	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 113, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u378	The original spirit of the amendment was to delete the part of the sentence on legislative and regulatory provisions, because it cannot be imagined that a director who drafts his or her proposed service, which defines the organization and operation of his or her service, would not do so under legislative and regulatory provisions. The opposite would imply that directors free themselves from the law and the regulations. I do not think that this idea is that of the rapporteurs. However, I realize that my amendment is much broader; Also, rather than seeing it rejected, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u379	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 370, 424 and 515. I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 370.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u380	As I don't like to lose too much, I also remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u381	I put to the vote Rule 24, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u382	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 62 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u383	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u384	Article 25 allows for the establishment of a national committee on prevention and health at work. If I may go up to the rostrum, it is to make a plea for the notion, for the principle of public health. For the past three years, I have tried to make it the red thread of my work in the House. Prevention can be of two types: individual – that's what each of us does during screenings for example – or population – what we call public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u385	Oh, yes, he did a class for me yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u386	Public health concerns a particular population or group rather than individual problems. Occupational health provides a common approach to groups of workers, such as those exposed to the same risks: chemicals, noise, physical effects that can lead to musculoskeletal disorders. It is in this sense that I have tabled an amendment providing for a health education session for these groups. Public health must be a policy, preventing diseases, prolonging life, promoting health and rehabilitating the environment. It also allows the control of infections in the population – the pandemic we are experiencing is a public health crisis – the education of people and the organization of medical and nursing services for the preventive treatment of pathologies. The ultimate goal is to enable every individual to enjoy his or her right to health and longevity, despite inequalities in health, whether innate or acquired. I recall that life expectancy varies by thirteen years between those who benefit from what we call healthy literacy – that is, healthy culture – and those who do not. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The concepts of public health must be understood by all and disseminated at all levels, including in occupational health services. This will be the role of the National Occupational Health and Prevention Committee; I am pleased with its creation, which will allow this diffusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u387	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u388	The purpose of the bill is to strengthen occupational health prevention. The latter, whose reform has been postponed for years despite the shortage of doctors at work and the deterioration of the health of employees, according to several studies, remains the poor parent of public policies. For the first time, a draft law will transpose the provisions of a national interprofessional agreement. Article 25 refers to point 4.1.1, the aim of which is to strengthen health at work and to put an end to the organisation in silos. However, the relevance of the creation of a new body raises questions, in particular the addition of additional provisions to an already obese labour code and the working method of creating an additional committee to resolve a problem or address an identified need. It would have been preferable to merge the National and Regional Occupational Health and Prevention Committees for simplification purposes. That is why the amendment seeks to delete Article 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u389	I have before me two amendments, Nos 274 and 284, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 274.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u390	We propose to extend the membership of the National Committee for Prevention and Health at Work, to associations of victims of work, associations of sick people, medical unions and state agencies – the list is not exhaustive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u391	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 284.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u392	[[Smile]] I have regained my voice, Madam President, for the pleasure of everyone, so I will defend this amendment. Health at work, in order to truly become a component of public health, must agree to be imposed on the eyes of civil society and associations. That is why the amendment, which is based on a proposal by the FNATH – the National Federation of Workers' Accidents and the Disabled – aims to change the composition of the committee to open it to associations of workers' victims and patients. Let us not forget that for the latter, it is impossible to unionize. Their voice is very important to address occupational health issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u393	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u394	The National Occupational Health Prevention Council is an important subject on which I intend to come back a few moments before you introduce the following amendments. The social partners who have signed the national interprofessional agreement have chosen to set up a new structure within the COCT – the working conditions guidance board – with extensive tasks, to replace the current permanent guidance group – GPO – and to take over its tasks. They called for its governance to be tripartite, which is now the case, and for its composition to be faithful to that of the GPO. For the sake of clarity of the debate and your good information, let me recall the composition of the GPO. Within the framework of the College of the Social Partners, there shall be a representative of each of the representative employers' organisations at national level and a representative of each of the representative trade union organisations at national level – i.e. the CFDT, the CGT, FO, the CGC and the CFTC. As part of the College of Ministerial Departments and the College of National Social Security, Expertise and Prevention Bodies, the Director General of Labour or his representative, the Director of Financial, Social and Logistical Affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture or his representative, the Director of Occupational Risks of the National Health Insurance Fund or his representative shall sit. These elements are contained in Article R. 4641-8 of the Labour Code. It therefore appears that the provisions on the composition of the future CNPST are, in their current wording, in line with the wishes of the social partners. We wish to satisfy the will of the social partners in terms of governance. We are committed to that and we will live up to that commitment. These elements will not be reconsidered as they correspond to the COCT OAG and we wish to maintain the current state. Opinion against both amendments. These explanations also apply to the positions I will take on other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u395	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u396	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u397	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u398	I hear your explanations. But if tomorrow we invite all the social partners by saying: "You have signed a protocol for which you all agreed, but you have forgotten the associations of victims of work and sick people, do you agree to add them? They will agree. It is not because everyone has signed the ANI that there can be no oblivion. Honestly, talking about health at work without referring to associations of victims of work and sick people is a mistake. If we were to question all the social partners and employers tomorrow, they would vote with us in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u399	Yeah, I'm sure...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u400	Identical amendments Nos 372 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 461 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 490 by Mr Richard Ramos and 517 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u401	Amendment No 115 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u402	Identical amendments Nos 373 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 465 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 492 by Mr Richard Ramos, 518 by Mr Gérard Cherpion and 530 by Mr Dominique Da Silva are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u403	The rapporteur's amendment No 448 of consistency is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u404	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 41 and 51. Amendment No 41 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u405	It aims to bring Article 25 into line with the tripartite composition of the new National Committee for Prevention and Health at Work, as well as with its tasks as provided for by the ANI. Finally, it lists the decisions taken in joint formation and refers to a decree the methods of decision-making within that committee, with a view to avoiding situations of blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u406	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u407	Its purpose is to add to the list of tasks of the National Committee for Prevention and Health at Work the task of determining how the preventive passport is to be applied and the conditions under which it is to be made available to the employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u409	You're right, Mr. Christophe. As we said in committee, we have planned to mention the mission of preventive passports in the law. This will be done once this amendment has been adopted... Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u410	The rapporteur's amendment No 450 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u411	Mr Christophe Naegelen's Amendment No. 19 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u412	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u413	It aims to have an annual activity report prepared to measure the effectiveness of the Regional Occupational Health and Prevention Committees (ORHCs). This report will be presented to the National Occupational Health and Prevention Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u414	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u415	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment seeks to change the composition of the CRPST: we do not wish to adopt such a provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u416	Identical amendments Nos 363 by Mr Stéphane Viry, 470 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie, 493 by Mr Richard Ramos and 519 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u417	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 43 and 44. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u418	It aims to introduce tripartism into the Regional Committee for Prevention and Health at Work, as is the case with the National Committee. It also seeks to add missions to this Committee, in accordance with the provisions of the ANI. Finally, it aims to define the decisions taken in joint formation and to refer to a decree the methods of decision-making by the committee, in order to avoid situations of blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u419	Amendment No 44 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u420	The text has already been amended to this effect during the examination in committee: it is satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u421	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u422	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u423	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u424	I've already defended him in committee. I understand that many people cannot be added to the membership of the committee, but it is a matter of changing the way disability is viewed in the workplace. The aim of the amendment is to involve persons involved in disability management in the social dialogue bodies of the company, so that there is no separate treatment of disability and occupational health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u426	We know the work you have done and your willingness to defend the accompaniment of people with disabilities. Some provisions of the text make it possible to organise better cooperation of the actors, in order to contribute to it. As rapporteur, we are very attentive to this with you. However, as far as regional governance is concerned, I cannot accept your wish because it is already in place and we are maintaining its organisation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u427	Amendment No 429 by Mrs Carole Grandjean is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u428	I have before me two amendments, Nos 294 and 550, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 294 by Mrs Josette Manin is being defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 550.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u429	Article 26 provides for the establishment of regional committees for prevention and health at work and defines their tasks. He said that representatives of the State and of employers' and trade union organizations would sit there. In the overseas territories, however, many workers' unions are not attached to one of the five representative organisations at national and inter-professional level; However, they are the majority: their presence in this new body seems therefore indispensable. This problem has already been raised when the Regional Interprofessional Joint Committees for Employment and Training and the Regional Interprofessional Joint Committees were set up. For the Overseas Territories, it is therefore necessary to provide, at legislative level, for representative organisations at regional and inter-professional level to sit within this body, the tasks of which will be determined by decree in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u430	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u431	You are defending an amendment supported by some of your ultramarine colleagues who wish to adjust the composition of the CRPST in the overseas departments and communities alone. This topic was not discussed during our work; It was also not put forward by the partners with whom we exchanged. At this stage, we have no reason to amend the existing provisions. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u433	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u434	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u435	Since it was tabled by our colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor, I will not withdraw it. Despite your unfavorable opinion, I would like the rapporteurs and the Secretary of State to undertake to study the subject in order to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u436	Nothing's safer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u437	I have before me an amendment No 551 on the additional article after Article 26. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u438	The aim is also to take into account the specificities of the ultramarine territories, by inserting, after Article 26, the following article: "The trade unions and professional organisations of employers most representative at regional and inter-professional level will be able to define a model of coordination aimed at collecting complaints from employees concerning the impact of work situations on their health, and alerting them to the risks inherent in the deterioration of their health. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u439	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u440	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u441	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u442	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u443	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u444	I would like to reiterate my request with some insistence: the bill must really take into account the specific features of the marine environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u445	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u446	It aims to allow the Government to legislate by ordinance on an important subject: the National Agency for the Improvement of Working Conditions – ANACT – and regional associations for the improvement of working conditions – ARACT. The Court of Auditors carried out an audit in 2019; It recommended, on the one hand, that we "change the pattern of financial and legal relations between [the two bodies] in order to bring it into line with the rules", on the other hand, to "respect, in relation to the partners, the rules of the Code of Public Procurement for partnership arrangements, in particular with regard to ARACTs". We have, of course, committed ourselves to follow up on the Court of Auditors' referral. A preparatory mission of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs has been launched, and consultation with stakeholders, including the social partners on the Board of Directors of the two entities, is expected in the coming weeks. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to correct the anomalies identified by the Court of Auditors under the conditions I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u448	We followed closely the Government-led discussions with ANACT and ARACT; We are of course in favour of giving him the means to make the necessary arrangements. We have addressed these issues on which the Council of State has alerted us, recommending that these provisions be secured. We are therefore very pleased to see that the subject is moving forward. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u449	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u450	Mr Secretary of State, in the same sentence you put together terms that do not fit well together: you said that this was an important subject, and that you were going to proceed by order... There's a problem! If this is an important subject, we talk about it, we do our work as legislators and, if necessary, we adopt the provisions resulting from it. There are no taboos, in my opinion, about the missions or organization of ANACT and ARACT. Reflection is undoubtedly necessary and must be part of a collective and democratic debate. Now you come at the last moment with an amendment under your arm, creating a new provision. If you had introduced a bill, perhaps you would have put it on it, but it didn't happen that way. With a bill that didn't talk about it, you risk that your amendment will be considered a legislative horseman, even if it obviously concerns occupational health. [[Mr Secretary of State protested]] Your procedure is all the less acceptable as you have given unfavourable opinions on some of our amendments, on the grounds that the discussion did not take place with the trade union organisations and the social partners. I'm not talking specifically about you, Secretary of State, but about the majority. Understand that after hearing this argument repeated for two days, it is difficult for me to follow you. I will therefore oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u451	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u452	I confess that I was also surprised by this rewriting of article 27,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u453	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u454	... originally written to ask the Government for a report on working conditions – an important subject –, specifically on ANACT. And now we are being asked to remain silent and to allow the Government to make the necessary arrangements by order. As you know, Secretary of State: the fact that, in the field of health, our role has almost been to endorse a national interprofessional agreement, has made us somewhat bitter. Indeed, the teleescoping of the timetables of the bill advocated by our colleagues and of the Government's actions probably deprived us of a genuine democratic debate since we could not change in depth what the social partners had decided. As I said, I would have preferred to discuss a real reform of occupational health, which would have also affected the public service, artisans and self-employed. Even if this article isn't going to change the face of the world, you're sending a bad message. It would have been better for us to stick to the original version: you are working and coming back to Parliament to explain where you are, rather than asking us to allow you to work alone in your area, by order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u455	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u456	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] As I like it, I often do the same joke: it is not because we talk about health that we appreciate prescriptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u457	It's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u458	That's why I like her: she puts a little atmosphere in the Chamber! We had agreed that a report on the subject should be given to us, so that we have all the information, and you come with your lovely smile to tell us that we will do without the report, that we do not need the information, because the Government will decide by order. Wait: There's a Parliament – MPs and Senators: Do we still have decision-making power? A report was requested; No one here has a priori refused to follow your decisions regarding ANACT and ARACT...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u459	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u460	... but let us study the report and vote! Why go through all the prescriptions, with a one-year limit? I know your name is La République en marche, but I refuse to walk on my head. I need information; You agreed to give them to us in a report: wait for him. The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this amendment. You've become accustomed to using prescriptions for everything, but it's a very bad habit – be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u461	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u462	Secretary of State, what you are doing is not right – really not right at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u463	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u464	Like my colleagues, I do not protest on the substance; These measures may be necessary. Section 27 provided for a report and, brutally, the report becomes an order! Frankly, I'm disappointed by your behavior. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In addition, reading the summary statement of your amendment indicates that an IGAS preparatory mission is under way and that a consultation of the social partners will be conducted. Complete the work in progress, share the results with us, and then let Parliament work! You cannot associate the administration with IGAS, consult the social partners, and sit down on Parliament's action! This is not good at all: I am not happy! The Liberties and Territories Group will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u465	You didn't ask for a public vote on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u466	Ms Cariou voted in favour...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u467	We want the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u468	[[Smile]] The amendment was adopted by little...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u469	We can always count back...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u470	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u471	This amendment is very simple, the best being sometimes the enemy of the good. The minimum duration of the training provided for in paragraph 3 shall be increased. However, the legislation in force is largely sufficient. That is why we propose to delete the paragraph in order to allow companies the possibility to adapt to their size, rather than to make the task more complex by imposing a minimum duration of training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u472	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u473	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u474	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u475	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u476	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u477	[[Laughs on the benches of the IDU-I groups and Take Action]] Thank you very much for this complete answer, argued and so explicit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u478	He just got here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u479	He doesn't seem satisfied...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u480	Because of administrative complexity, it is already difficult to get there on a daily basis. Here, therefore, it is simply a matter of not amending the existing texts which are suitable for the majority of the entrepreneurs with whom I discuss daily, regardless of the size of the company. Can you go back to the minimum threshold you intend to set: where does it come from and why did you decide so?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u481	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u482	That's not nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u483	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 277, 45, 50, 114, 203, 248, 308 and 311, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 45, 50, 114, 203, 248, 308 and 311 are identical and are the subject of a sub-amendment No 560. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u484	Training in health, safety and working conditions is essential. As such, just as the duration of the training must be decorated by the size of the enterprise, it must also be the experience of a first term. The rapid pace of technological change and risk prevention requires regular upgrading of knowledge, and this requires renewed training for each mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u485	Identical Amendments Nos 45 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras, 50 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine and 114 by Mr Gérard Cherpion are being defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u486	[[Smile]] If this is a prescription, you have every chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u487	This amendment aims to bring Article 28 into line with the requirements of the national interprofessional agreement. Although the social partners wanted to increase the right to training of elected representatives at the SSC from three to five days in health, safety and working conditions in companies with less than 300 employees, they did not wish to change the rules in the event of the renewal of the mandate. This amendment, tabled in committee, has been somewhat rewritten. It states that the training is five days for elected members of the CSSCT – Health, Safety and Working Conditions Commission – in companies with at least 300 employees, and three days for employee representatives in companies with less than 300 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u488	Identical amendments Nos 248 by Mr Jean-Luc Bourgeaux, 308 by Mr Guillaume Chiche and 311 by Mr Paul Christophe are being defended. The rapporteur's sub-amendment No 560 is drafting. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u489	Favourable to Amendments Nos 45 and 45 and identical, subject to the adoption of Subamendment No 560 and thus unfavourable to Amendment No 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u490	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u491	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u492	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u493	Article 27, as originally drafted, provided that the Government would submit a report to Parliament on ANACT. In this amendment, I propose that you reflect on the application of the bill to self-employed workers, who, unfortunately, are the forgotten ones in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u494	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u495	The forgotten of this quinquennium!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u496	Since legislators are thinking about how to prevent workers, it is an opportunity to include those who have chosen to work independently. It is simply a request for a report on an essential issue, which would be only a small catch-up in view of the huge failure of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u497	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u498	You are wrong about the scope of the bill. It contains provisions that encourage occupational health services to create a specific preventive offer for self-employed, entrepreneurs and wage porters. The text gives impetus to these populations and I cannot let you say that this is not the case. To return to your request, it does not seem realistic since you want the Government to report to Parliament on the implementation of the law one year after its promulgation. This is not feasible since the law will only come into force on March 31, 2022. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u499	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u500	With this text, our concern is that of occupational health, particularly prevention throughout the career path. Private employees may suffer a break in their career path and become job seekers, in which case they do not benefit from occupational health monitoring. However, medical supervision is very important for job seekers. We therefore wish, through this amendment, that the Government submit a report to Parliament on the opening up of the occupational health monitoring system to job-seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u502	You have drawn our attention to this on many occasions and, like you, we consider it important. You ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the extension of occupational health provisions for job-seekers, within six months of the enactment of the law. If we are sensitive to this issue, the opinion will be unfavourable given the target of the bill. However, we are convinced that we must move forward on what is a matter of professional reintegration, and of which you have widely defended the cause, which I welcome, as is probably the case with all the Members present.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u504	My opinion is the same as that of the rapporteur. Mrs Riotton, I was at Rambouillet's Pôle Emploi, alongside your colleague Aurore Bergé last week, and we raised this issue, including the overall support of job seekers. Even if this is not precisely the point you mention, there are provisions that can, in some cases, accompany jobseekers in the field of health; Pôle Emploi advisors are aware of the need to set up this type of accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u505	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u506	Occupational health is a requirement that unites us all, whether it concerns the period of activity or the period that follows it. This is an appeal amendment, which proposes that, within 12 months of the enactment of this Act, the Government should submit a report to Parliament on the desirability of providing for an end-of-career visit, carried out before the employee's retirement, to carry out a health check and prevent the loss of autonomy. Why is this amendment, which is somewhat original or even provocative? Because 13.4 million French are over 65 years old and they will be over 22 million by 2070. As a result, the health of these people will need to be ensured when they retire: they will age and will not benefit from occupational health prevention. However, we know how many difficulties there can be at this time of life – whether they are difficulties with hearing, vision, memory, or the current loss of capacity inherent in aging. This amendment proposes to consider how, before retiring, one could take stock of his state of health and thus prepare a new, demanding phase of life, which nevertheless remains complementary to the period of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u507	All right, very interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u509	The question of the health of people about to retire has its full place in this social debate. I would point out that Article L. 4624-2-1 of the Labour Code already provides that workers who are subject to enhanced individual monitoring or who have benefited from such follow-up during their professional career are examined by the occupational doctor before they retire. This device must be able to apply and I suggest that you look at it a little backwards before extending it. We hear, however, your call, and many of us are likely to share it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u510	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u511	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u512	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u513	In the continuity of my previous amendments, this is a request for a report, within six months, on the deployment of advanced practices at work, in particular with a view to creating university training corresponding to the needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u514	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u515	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u516	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u517	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u518	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u519	As we have said on several occasions, we have seen a significant decrease in the number of doctors at work; France is now facing a real shortage. However, occupational medicine must provide itself with the human means to act to preserve the physical and mental health of employees. On the other hand, occupational medicine is still insufficiently associated with strategic decision-making by companies, even though these choices involve health and may expose employees to psychosocial risks. I therefore propose that the Government submit to Parliament, within six months of the enactment of the Act, a report on the developments to be considered in order to involve doctors at work more closely in the strategic choices of companies that engage the health of employees and on the need to recruit occupational health personnel, so that the latter can continue to play its preventive role in the service of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u520	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u521	I have an unfavorable opinion. The deadline is too short and the literature is already abundant on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u522	I call Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u523	Occupational health and prevention services are the daily and historical operators of occupational health for companies and their employees. While their number has been halved in 20 years, further consolidation remains desirable. In fact, occupational health services remain very disparate in terms of their size and scope of action; They do not all have the same ability to carry out their mission. When the occupational health service has only a small team, it is difficult for it to undertake large-scale or branch-wide departmental actions, in line with the geographical boundaries defined by the pension and occupational health insurance fund – CARSAT – and the regional management of enterprises, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE. Moreover, in this situation, the presence of a genuine unit for the prevention of occupational disintegration – their generalisation, as provided for in this bill, is an important step forward – is called into question. It is necessary for occupational health and prevention services to be of a certain size in order for the teams to be fully multidisciplinary, including an ergonomist, a chemist and a psychologist. Finally, the place occupied by occupational physicians in these services and the evolution of their demographics are strongly in favour of a sustained regrouping movement. DIRECCTE and occupational medical inspection do not have the resources to enforce regulatory requirements. I would remind you that the DIRECCTE d'Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes no longer has a doctor at work. That is why I request that the Government submit to Parliament, before 31 December 2022 – we could possibly change that date – a report allowing for, among other things, monitoring these groupings.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u524	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u525	We fully share your intention. The purpose of this bill is precisely to harmonize, throughout the territories, the provision of services offered by occupational health and prevention services and to facilitate business access to such services. The provisions that we have adopted will strengthen the multidisciplinary nature of the teams by strengthening certain occupations within them. In addition, we have provided for the definition of a base offer and a complementary offer, as well as certification and accreditation procedures. In addition, many reports have been submitted on these issues. Let us allow the time to implement these provisions before going further in the evaluation. That is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u526	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 193.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u527	The aim is to request the Government to submit to Parliament, within two years of the enactment of the Act, a report assessing the effectiveness of the corresponding medical practitioner system, which we have discussed at length. We would see if it was difficult or not to employ corresponding doctors and we could look again, if necessary, at the attractiveness of the profession of occupational physician.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u528	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u529	You're calling our attention to the new physician-practitioner device. It would indeed be interesting to have an exchange with the Government on this matter. I therefore express a favourable opinion, subject to an amendment to the deadline, in favour of the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u530	Amendment No 262 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u531	Amendment No 285 by Mrs Caroline Fiat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u532	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u533	To the extent that it also relates to the corresponding physician practitioner, I hope that he will receive a favourable opinion. As I have seen in my constituency, the conversion of a general practitioner to a doctor at work is, at this stage, part of the combatant's journey: it takes five years and then four years of training. Yet there is a shortage of doctors at work, which we have witnessed extensively over the course of these three days of debate. We request that the Government submit, within six months of the enactment of the Act, a report on measures to facilitate the conversion of city doctors. In particular, I would like to consider the conditions required, particularly for training, to become a physician practitioner. These will be laid down in article 21 and its implementing decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u534	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u535	We have already requested a report on the corresponding physician practitioner device. Since the amendment is satisfied, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u536	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor to support Amendment No. 360.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u537	It is intended to request a report on the use of the shared medical record and the possibility of merging it with the occupational health record. Such a merger would promote cooperation between occupational medicine and city medicine in the service of the patient. Early identification of occupational exposure disorders and better prevention of occupational diseases would make it possible to organise early conversions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u538	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u539	The amendment is satisfied with that. I ask for the withdrawal, otherwise my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u540	Amendment No 253 by Mrs Caroline Fiat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u541	Amendment No 172 by Mr Stéphane Viry is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u542	A report has already been submitted on this subject by Mr Isaac-Sibille. I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise I will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u543	Mrs Dubie, is Amendment No 128 being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u544	Ah, you'd love to! Well, no, I'll introduce him! In its opinion, the Council of State recommended that "the date of entry into force of the certification obligation should be extended beyond 31 March 2022, which is too ambitious in view of the deadlines for the development of the standards, the accreditation of supervisory bodies and the conduct of certification operations". We therefore call for the deletion of the words "by 31 March 2022" at the end of the first paragraph of Article 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u545	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u546	Mrs. Dubie is attentive, to the end, to all the details! The law may refer to a decree the determination of its date of entry into force, provided that it itself sets a deadline. I would point out that we will have the opportunity, during the parliamentary shuttle, to reflect on a delayed entry into force date for certain articles that cannot actually be applied as early as March 2022. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u547	I have before me two amendments, Nos 352 and 174, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 352.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u548	It is intended to extend to self-employed persons the measures provided for in this bill. Article 17 only provides for individual monitoring of some of them. However, measures to strengthen occupational health prevention should not be confined to salaried workers; It would be appropriate to extend them to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u549	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u550	Madam rapporteur, I listened carefully to the reply you made earlier on the subject of self-employed workers. You're moving on to the tip of your feet, while you're going to have to go on a long way. It's a political choice. For my part, I believe that the provisions of the text should apply as soon as possible and in full force to self-employed workers. I confess – this will be my last observation for this first reading – that this bill is nice, but it remains, at this stage, cacochym.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u551	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u552	They are both aimed at extending to self-employed persons all the provisions of the text. If we too believe that self-employed people should benefit from the provisions strengthening occupational health prevention – this is indeed the dynamic that we encourage, since we have included in the law the creation, for them, of a specific offer in terms of prevention and individual follow-up; This is a decisive point – it is not appropriate to provide for measures for them that are identical to those applicable to employees. That is not their wish. We will therefore refrain from engaging in actions that, in our view, are not operational and do not meet their needs. The specific offer that I have mentioned must first be created effectively and must be the subject of an acculturation by the actors. A feedback will allow us to identify any adjustments that may be required. More broadly, we highlight the issue of social protection for the self-employed, a real social issue. I express an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u553	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u554	It is intended to raise the pledge provided for in Article 30. The burdens resulting from the provisions that you have voted for, ladies and gentlemen, are perfectly justified by the objectives of this reform. Since this amendment is the last one, I should like to add a few words. You have collectively been able to give its full place to prevention in occupational medicine. You made a strong choice, very quickly, a few weeks after the conclusion of the national interprofessional agreement by the social partners. You have thus shown the perfect articulation that can exist between parliamentary democracy and social democracy. We can all rejoice in that. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This bill will allow for real social progress. It will introduce particularly innovative provisions to protect the health of employees, while providing for the necessary support of employers and promoting retention in employment wherever possible. Finally, it will enhance the role of occupational health professionals. For all these reasons, I would like to thank you for the work done, which you can congratulate yourself on.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u555	What is the committee's opinion on this government amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u556	That is a very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u557	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill. On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u558	In the explanations of vote on the whole bill, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor, for the group La France insoumée.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u559	In our debates, which I have been very attentive to, we have talked a lot about consensus and progress, but our group has tried to prove to you, even if an interprofessional national agreement has been reached, that there is no consensus or progress. As I explained to you, the majority of the amendments we tabled were proposed by the same unions that participated in this agreement. That is proof that there was no consensus. We must also not forget the 600 doctors at work who alerted you to the difficulties that the text poses to them. [["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] In total, does the text contain any progress or not? One thing is certain, unfortunately, the debates have not convinced us. After much thought, our group has therefore decided to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u560	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor for the Libertés et Territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u561	In the general discussion, we indicated that our group was looking at this bill in a rather positive spirit. However, we wanted the text to include, along with ANI, the different families of occupational risks on which the social partners had agreed, but you did not accept our amendment, which we regret. Another disappointment for us was the question of the corresponding medical practitioners. The measure provided for in the bill is a bad response to a real problem, in this case the shortage of doctors at work. It is certainly not with the corresponding medical practitioners that this can be rectified. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, we can only regret the unsophisticated way in which you rewrite article 27. You have just, a few moments ago, welcomed the two rapporteurs – rightly because they worked well – by stressing that they were able to combine parliamentary democracy with social democracy. Let me point out that this is not at all what you have done with this Article 27!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u562	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u563	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Despite these reservations, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u564	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u565	I must admit that the more the debate has advanced, the less convinced I have been by the proposed measures. The text contains a large number of problematic provisions, whose discussions have gradually shown that they were false good ideas. So this is not the great law for occupational health that we needed, but a text that is unfortunately limited to a very small area. Among the problematic measures are those which introduce market logics into occupational health services. One measure, however, is good, as I said: the archiving of unique documents. It was necessary and I am pleased that it is included in the bill. For the rest, I'm at least dubitative. It is unlikely that this text will lead to a real strengthening of action to promote health at work. The Government had set the road map for the social partners and had defined a perimeter. There is no enthusiasm or unanimity in the public space about this text today. Yet there was much to do for occupational health. In my view, the outcome of the legislature in this area is negative. It had started with very bad measures taken by means of ordinances. This new text, I regret, will not make it possible to repair everything that has been done and to project ourselves in the future through vigorous action to promote health at work. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u566	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u567	Ah, suspense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u568	We approach the vote on this bill with emotion and great satisfaction, and we welcome the scope of this text, which places prevention at the heart of occupational health. I will retain five major contributions from the text. The first is the increase in the quality of services provided by occupational health services and, above all, their harmonization throughout the country. I am thinking, in particular, of the basic offer of certified services, which guarantees harmonised services throughout France, and of the evaluation, certification and accreditation approach, which ensures the quality of services. The second point concerns the division between city medicine and occupational medicine, with, for example, access by the occupational doctor to the shared medical file – DMP – a good step forward. We can also remember, thirdly, the multidisciplinarity and the importance given to a global solution for the worker. For example, in multidisciplinary occupational health cells, occupational physicians will work alongside occupational hazard prevention workers, nurses, nurses in advanced practice, physiotherapists and ergonomists. Here again, a great step forward! Prevention of occupational disintegration is the fourth contribution. The bill addresses the risks of losing one's job as a result of the deterioration of one's health, by early identification of the latter, by seeking to adjust the jobs early in order to keep the person in employment and by facilitating his/her retraining when the risks are proven. Finally, I would like to add that the bill allows health at work to be extended to all audiences. It will now be available to independents, business leaders, interims and subcontractors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we can collectively congratulate ourselves on the work done. We shall vote in favour of the proposal with great joy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u569	What is the point of asking us to limit our interventions to one minute if you speak for two minutes and twenty seconds?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u570	Mr Bernard Bouley, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u571	The text on which we are going to vote is important because it will have a significant impact on the lives of employees and companies. More than ever before, our companies need to be productive and able to meet the major challenges ahead in order to go through the economic crisis. More than ever before, we must provide employees with the framework that will promote prevention and health at work and enable them to flourish professionally. Good physical and mental health and good economic health can no longer be dissociated. As I said at the beginning of our debates, our group agrees with the momentum. He made his contribution, as he was able to make a substantive proposal. Despite the rich exchanges that have sparked the debates, I sincerely regret that pragmatism and common sense have not prevailed in the consideration of certain provisions. This is a pity because many of them have a laudable objective, but the implementation of it, as it stands, will unfortunately not allow them to produce all the beneficial effects that could have been achieved. Thus, the contribution of occupational physicians to screening and vaccination campaigns is, in the spirit, a good idea. However, no work has been done to assess the impact of this measure, which we know will apply to the detriment of occupational physician prevention missions. I also very much regret that Article 24 has not been amended, not because I am on the initiative of an amendment to that effect, but because it simply deprives this text of any serious hope of full application on the ground. A text concerning the physical and mental health of the French at work and the economic health of companies should, in my view, produce the full effects expected. Other examples could illustrate the lack of ambition of this text, which I regret. It is not the objectives set that are at stake, but the concrete capacity to meet them. However, our discussions have enabled some progress, which I would like to recall. We have ensured that the agricultural world is restored to its rightful place. I am also thinking of the homogenisation of the procedure for the approval of STPs by decree and of the rationalisation and applicability of the prevention of chemical risks through the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 2b. The social partners, who are responsible, have almost unanimously affirmed, through the national interprofessional agreement, their willingness to provide concrete answers. It was therefore crucial that this text should be based on the consensus of the social partners. We believe that this is the case today and that significant progress has been made. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group, on several benches of the LaREM Group and among non-attached Members]] For all these reasons, it will be essential to objectively assess the actual impact of the proposed law on the ground with companies and employees. It may be necessary to extend, correct or adapt it in the light of this assessment. We will therefore pay attention to the application of the text in favour of which Members of the Republican Group will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u572	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u573	Our group welcomes the conclusion of the first reading of the bill to strengthen occupational health prevention. The long and collaborative work that led to its elaboration has led to a fairly solid drafting, which we hope will satisfy the social partners. The text, after it has been enriched by the Senate, will require many regulations. It is important for our group, in the continuity of the work done so far, to be closely involved in the next steps of the review of the text. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, however, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the insufficiently understood concept of public health. This concept should be given a greater place in the occupational health sector. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] In a logical way, in view of our investment in the drafting of this text, of which we are co-signatories, we will support it with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u574	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u575	While this bill was intended to reform the occupational health system, our discussions end with great disappointment. We cannot resign ourselves to the fact that this reform is confined to the reorganization of structures and the dismantling of public health, city medicine and occupational health, which are supposed to respond to the shortage of occupational doctors. Transforming health services into providers to carry out prevention programs or to write in place of employers the single risk assessment document will lead to distorting the very essence of their mission. Even if we recognize the laudable objective of partially transposing the ANI, signed by several trade unions, we believe that this text could have been an opportunity to examine all the situations of suffering of employees in a changing world of work, faced with the explosion of psychosocial risks. Above all, we had two major fears and therefore two requests. The first concerned the preservation of the medical secret between occupational medicine and city and hospital medicine. The second concerned the preventive passport, which we believe should not relieve companies of their liability in the event of an accident, a simple request to ensure that we avoid a serious risk, an application which cost nothing and which merely entered your oral promises in writing. But that was obviously too much to ask you. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We remain, tonight, with the feeling of a missed opportunity and a vision that is too technical and breathless. That is why we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u576	Mr Paul Christophe, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u577	I congratulate the two rapporteurs on their mastery throughout our work and I welcome the serenity of our debates in committee and in public. We have discussed matters of substance with, I believe, some pleasure, which we can take pride in. Mr Secretary of State, you pointed out that the text proposed great social progress. If I were to retain only one, that would be the place now given to prevention in the context of occupational health. We have been defending this goal for several years during each review of the Social Security Financing Bill. It is now included in this bill, which honours both the trade unions and employers' bodies and the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens, LaREM and IDU-I groups]] We have tried to improve the text, but further proposals will still be possible, particularly with regard to the attractiveness of the professions. Two hundred occupational doctors are missing today. We must therefore work to make health professions at work more attractive in the curricula of doctors. I am confident that we will all succeed in achieving this goal. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u578	Mrs Valérie Six, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u579	First of all, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs: the text has been beautifully worked out and the hearings organised by the committee have been very interesting. We had the opportunity to say this on several occasions during the debates: the objective of this bill was to put prevention at the heart of occupational health and to allow every worker access to STPs. We have some reservations about mid-career visits and the use of a corresponding physician practitioner who, according to our group, will not have the expected effects. As I said during the debates, the real problem of substance lies in the evolution of medical demography and in the attractiveness of the profession of occupational doctor; But the text does not address it, which I find unfortunate. I hope that we will have the opportunity to work on it again in the near future because we have been waiting for reform in this area for years...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u580	We'll have to wait 2022...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u581	Despite the publication of many reports, we have not yet found the remedies to make these professions attractive. However, the text gives us satisfaction on many other points. I am thinking in particular of the introduction into the Labour Code of the risk of occupational disintegration – this is an essential element – of the archiving of the single document, of the creation of the preventive passport, of the extension of the missions of the SPSTs to vaccination campaigns, of transparency in the contributions and fees of the SPSTs, of the creation of a unit for the prevention of occupational disintegration, of the access of the occupational doctor to the DMP with respect for medical confidentiality – we have talked about a lot – and of the recognition of nurses in advanced practice. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] The aim was therefore to break down city medicine and occupational medicine, which means recognizing that public health and occupational health are linked. I believe that this bill, inspired by the ANI of last December and enriched during the debates by the contributions of each of the groups, makes it possible to achieve it. That is why the IDU and independent group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u582	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u583	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 116 Number of votes cast 116 Absolute majority 59 For adoption 104 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2021-02-17-O1174.u584	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one fifteen hours: Draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. The meeting is adjourned.
