ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u1	The next item is the question of the explosion of poverty in the context of the covid -19 pandemic. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u2	Minister of Solidarity and Health, you are unbeatable in the game of diversions... When we talk about the thousands of jobs that have been cut, you're talking about separatism. When you're alerted to the lines of students in front of food aid, it's Islamogauchism at university. When one highlights the explosion of poverty, you answer inclusive writing. When you're offered to use the wealthiest, you're gonna dump us with the meat in the canteen. You are able to speak of everything and anything, of anything of preference, but above all not of the major social crisis that we are going through. Perhaps it is better not to talk about what is aggravated, since with your shameful reform of unemployment insurance, you are going to reduce the allowances of those who are deprived of employment, supposedly to encourage the return to employment in the midst of an economic crisis of job shortages. It is as absurd as continuing to remove hospital beds in the midst of a health crisis, which you also do – you can only welcome your consistency. But what sick liberal brain can this idea come out of? Unemployment is no choice. Before the crisis, some 14,000 deaths were attributed to long-term unemployment each year. With this reform, you make the terrible promise of new human tragedies. The reality is that you are saving money on the backs of the precarious people of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Yesterday, it was reported that the United Kingdom would increase corporate taxes by 25% to pay the bill for the covid crisis. And you, why don't you go get the money where it is? They have names and addresses, the Arnaults, the Mulliez, the Niel, the Bolloré, the Bouygues, the Vincis and so many others. Restore the solidarity tax on wealth, put in place a tax on the profitors of crisis, finally share the wealth! Minister, when will you rise to the height of our Social Republic and finally make use of the richest in this country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u3	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u4	The debate is starting very hard! Speaking of sick brains at a neurologist, you're taking risks, MP! [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Poverty deserves a calm and serious debate. There are French who are listening to us and who are waiting to know what measures the Government and the majority have already taken and could take in the future to combat the scourge of insecurity, which has clearly not been reduced with this unprecedented health crisis. Some 20 speakers are registered and I am sure they will be asking real questions, which I would be happy to answer in factual and numerical terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u5	That was a real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u6	The honourable Member should be aware that, with €3.5 billion in direct financial aid to the most vulnerable audiences since the beginning of the pandemic, France does not have to be ashamed of its action. Support for the associations is unprecedented and they recognise it – do not hesitate to ask them the question, they will answer you: we are in the process of arbitrating a call for projects of 100 million euros to help the associations that act on all the grounds. You are right that student assistance is necessary: it is a particularly fragile audience and I have seen it. I don't know if you're making marauds like me with the social SAMU or with the Restos of the Heart; Come occasionally, you will see that I am not on the ground and that I am well aware of the difficult situation that the French are experiencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u7	What about the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u8	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the accuracy of your answer, quiet and modest! To hear you, the associations have never had so much money and congratulate you. That's not the perception we have. As you know, our country now has ten million poor people, one million more than when your majority came to power in 2017. This figure represents 15 per cent of the population. All categories are affected: young people, disadvantaged workers, senior citizens and women, whose share is predominant. What are you doing? What are you doing for young people who have been calling for help for several months? President Emmanuel Macron has promised a 1 euro meal in university restaurants, but the queues in front of food aid are still as long. What are you doing for households that find it hard to pay their rent? At my permanence, as perhaps at yours, there are calls from people who can't stay. The Fondation Abbé Pierre – did you think of it by saying that the associations thanked you for your help? – showed that you have achieved €10 billion in savings on LPAs since 2017, and the trend persists despite the crisis, with the entry into force of the reform of the calculation of housing aid. What are you doing for those who have difficulty feeding? Eight million French people need food aid, 3 million more than two years ago. The food check promised by the President of the Republic is slow to come. Two exceptional aids paid by the Government to the most modest households during the first two confinements have not been sustained, while the social consequences of the crisis are there. What are you doing for the unemployed? From a certain point of view, you are acting, but contrary to what is necessary, with the reform of unemployment insurance which will cause almost 40% of them to lose their rights. You persist in wanting to maintain it against the unanimous opinion of the trade unions. How relevant – I'm ironing! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, this is an alert. Answer it, please, in a way that is a little more consistent than what you have just done. The country is going badly, millions of our fellow citizens are suffering, the health situation is terrible and social deprivations make the lives of many of us unbearable. Please do not make the situation worse, withdraw the reform of unemployment insurance and act to help the most fragile people through the current period!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u10	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u11	I'll try to be precise. The figures from the report of the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, INSEE, for 2019, i.e. before the covid crisis – you are not going to challenge them since last year you used the INSEE 2018 report to show that poverty had increased in the country – show that poverty had declined in our country in 2019, for the first time in a number of years. It is not I who say it, it is not the Government, but the INSEE: again, I refer to the same data as you usually brandish to accuse us of acting unreasonablely. If poverty had regressed in 2019, it was mainly thanks to the premium of activity that had enabled 200,000 French people to break out of precariousness. No one says it's enough – there were still 9.2 million poor – but before the covid crisis, the trajectory was changing favorably for the first time in years. Indeed, the crisis of the covid came to impoverish a number of French: one thinks of students who do not find jobs to supplement or contract workers who have not obtained missions. In this context, we have done what no other country has done around us. First of all, in the field of health, we have provided 100% health insurance – without advance payment, without payment – for the totality of the care inherent in the covid: tests, vaccines, hospitalizations, consultations, telemedicine. Are you sensitive to the question of health insurance? I am, too. Then we brought a series of aids: food aid, cheques, masks... For their part, companies have benefited from an unprecedented state support plan: think for a second that the wage of nearly 20 million French people has been paid by the State for several months thanks to the partial unemployment scheme. The Solidarity Fund has supported artisans and traders. In short, the social shock absorbers played full. This effort leaves an invoice, but we assume it: that was the "whatever it costs." As for the reform of unemployment insurance, it has been staggered several times because the context did not lend itself to it and then changed to take account of the views of the social partners. I am not saying that it is the subject of a consensus,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u12	Yes, but a consensus against her!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u13	...but it is necessary. There could be a substantive debate on this issue, but it would take more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u14	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u15	If a person had been able to save 8000 euros a day since the Bastille took place on 14 July 1789 until today – a highly unlikely hypothesis! – it would have accumulated only 1% of Mr. Bernard Arnault's wealth. In France, seven people have as much wealth as 30% of the population. The richest 10 per cent hold 50 per cent of the country's wealth. Some people earn in a few minutes what an average employee will take a lifetime of hard work to earn. In addition, 15,000 French, including thirty-seven of the fifty richest families, have accounts in Luxembourg and run away from tax. In total, fraud and tax evasion cost EUR 100 billion. In the midst of a pandemic, French billionaires have raised an additional 175 billion euros. This afternoon's debate is about the explosion of poverty, but it could just as well have been about the explosion of wealth in the same context. What I want to show is that poverty, which reaches record levels in France and now affects ten million people, does not fall from the sky and is not a side of the concentration of wealth in a few hands. Agree: Victor Hugo was just aiming to say that the paradise of the rich was made from the hell of the poor. This country produces much enough wealth to allow everyone to live there with dignity. Poverty is unbearable, especially when it strikes the country's youth so heavily. To overcome this poverty is possible, on the condition of a determined political will. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What are you waiting for to give young people under 25 years of age access to the AHR? What are you waiting for to raise the social minima, so that no one lives below the poverty line in the world's sixth economic power? To overcome poverty, there is only one real solution: to share. What are you waiting for to tap into those who took the most advantage of this crisis? What are you waiting for to limit the income gap in businesses, to restore the ISF, to reform the tax system in this country, as we propose, in order to better distribute the effort among all and to ensure that those who have the least pay less and those who have the most pay more? Finally, what are you waiting for to introduce the universal tax to make those who flee tax and escape national solidarity pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u16	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u17	Mr Quatennens, we know each other enough that you trust me when I tell you that I have no particular appetite for having a billion-dollar bank account. I do not understand the meaning or logic of such an accumulation and I do not see the interest of a person in concentrating so much wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u18	We're not talking about the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u19	Let's act together!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u20	On that, we can agree. Of course, you can oppose the communist model to the capitalist model, but you should recognize that the sharing of wealth on forced march never completely reduced poverty in the world, it even led to the opposite in the 19th and 20th centuries. And the few countries that propose the forced sharing of wealth are not doing better, it is obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u21	What about tax sharing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u22	Who produces wealth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u23	In a globalized capitalistic model – the one in which we live, agree – what we seek first is to encourage job creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u24	By removing the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u25	We can discuss this in every way, but in our societies, the first solidarity is employment. The first cause of poverty is unemployment; The first way out of poverty – factual and statistical evidence – is access to employment. How can we create jobs? There is a need for a dynamic economy and for companies to hire. It is important to avoid redundancies and we do so: we are re-establishing companies; With France Relance, we are launching a European investment plan that aims to reindustrialize our country and thus create jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u26	Share working time!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u27	We also deployed the "1 young 1 solution" plan. You're talking about the young RSA, but what I wanted, before I was a minister and as a minister, is to leave no young person without a solution. None of them should get to say: sorry, there is no income for you, no work or learning. I'd rather be told a thousand times – I'm totally comfortable in my sneakers than this idea: you're going to second chance school and we're going to give you money every month so you can do an apprenticeship; We're gonna get you a job or an internship, and that's how you make money. We don't just give money: we give money and a future. I believe this model deeply. As for the tax debate, we can again give figures against figures: I would remind you that the average income of the French – and not that of the richest – has increased by 3%, thanks in particular to the premium of activity which has brought 100 euros more per month to millions of French. And I guarantee you they see the difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u28	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u29	You know very well, Minister, that it is employees, students, temporary workers, the unemployed, but also self-employed and artisans who are now turning into poverty. Isn't the emergency here? I ask you again the question: under these conditions, how to pay his rent and bills, how to eat, how to care for himself, how to meet the basic needs of his children? How, how, how? There are many sources of questioning. To financial suffering is added moral suffering. In the face of this, we must put an end to the policy of ostrich: France must revive social life. This recovery should include a significant increase in all social minima; create jobs for social workers throughout France; recruit educators and escorts in all neighbourhoods, not to mention overseas; create the 200 million euro national rent aid fund requested by the Fondation Abbé Pierre, on which you have committed and which we are still waiting for; quickly establish a minimum income for students; apply the enforceable right to employment and thus open up opportunities for millions of people: the solutions are there. It is only a matter of political will. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] All of this would make it possible to get people back to work. It is a question of dignity that of reviving the economy and improving purchasing power, in order, in the end, to break the spiral of poverty. In my view, a plan to revive social life is indispensable and inescapable. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u31	Again, we share the same objective: to allow everyone to have a job and eradicate misery, we are not the first government to want to do so, and you are not the first parliamentarians, the majority or the opposition, to question the executive for it to do so. In the centuries that have passed before we came to the responsibilities, no one has found the martingale to eradicate poverty altogether; But everyone tries, in their own way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u32	Concretize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u33	The right-wing parliamentarians will present us with their methods, which are perfectly legitimate, while the left-wing parliamentarians have their own. I hear you are calling on us to create as many public jobs as our country has unemployed people. The problem is that public employment must be financed from public money, which means private jobs to feed the machine, especially through taxation – which I know is dear to you. Of course, we share your objective. Again, check your tablets. You are calling for the extension of the RSA or RUA to young people. I challenge any parliamentarian here – there are not many of you in this session with questions about poverty, but that's how it is – to trace a €7 billion plan targeted towards employment, learning and training for young people, as well as the second chance school. Look! Whether it's under Mitterrand, under François Hollande or under the right-wing governments, you won't find it! We have ambition. The means, we deploy them as never before. Of course, this will never be enough to eradicate poverty and poverty. But help us, Congressman! When we go to the priority neighbourhoods of city politics to encourage social actors to promote the plan "1 young 1 solution", they assure us that they are ready to do so. But if, at the same time, elected officials say that this plan does not meet their ambition, it necessarily gives them a little less desire. Help us: promote the proposed devices and work with us when, sometimes, we defend sufficiently ambitious measures to be likely to satisfy you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u34	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u35	Minister, tomorrow will open the national collection of Restos du coeur. As with the Catholic Relief or the People's Relief, these initiatives, in the present period, are of vital importance. Associations face a significant increase in the number of applicants, whether food or household products and hygiene. What is more, the profile of the public, so the needs, unfortunately, are diversifying. All of this is of the utmost concern to associations, especially since the donations themselves are likely to erode as the difficulties of the employees, who remain the first donors, worsen. According to a study published in February, more than 2.1 million people are using food aid at the beginning of 2021; 51% have reported doing so for less than a year. The stakes are therefore considerable, and there is no indication that a reversal of the trend will occur in the coming months. The Communist MEPs therefore ask you to go far beyond the first financial support granted to national solidarity associations. You mentioned a call for projects worth EUR 100 million; For our part, we believe that the needs would justify, at this stage, an additional public contribution of around EUR 200 million. An exceptional solidarity tax on the wealth of the richest could, moreover, greatly contribute to the financing of this provision. What is your opinion on this doubling of the funding announced for national solidarity associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u36	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u37	The funding we provide in the area of food aid is not limited to EUR 100 million: this amount corresponds to the only call for projects to modernise associations. I will not disclose the list of winners because I have not yet had access to them, but I know that some candidates have submitted interesting projects. Thus the Restos du coeur have proposed to undertake the renewal of their car fleet in order to use electric cars to carry out their tasks: such an action is interesting and allows to make with one stone two blows by combining sustainable development, fight against precariousness and political solidarity. Also know that Prime Minister Jean Castex and I met with representatives of the Restos du coeur, who had asked us to extend the "Coluche amendment" which had been adopted in the second amending finance law for 2020. While donations under the so-called Coluche law benefit, up to the limit of 552 euros, from 75% of the amount given – compared to 66% for other usually deductible donations – this ceiling had been raised to 1000 euros to take account of the cash flow difficulties experienced by these associations, beyond the core Restos alone. This legislative provision was continued in the Finance Act for 2021; This shows that we are listening. I could also mention the €94 million in additional food aid allocated to associations since the start of the health crisis, or the 48% increase in European funding for food donations, particularly to food banks. This funding will reach EUR 869 million for the period 2021-2027: Europe is getting there, and that is so much better, because it helps us a lot. We therefore provide substantial assistance to associations. The needs of the Heart Restos and food banks increased by about 20% during the most difficult period of containment. We make sure, of course, that they do not lack food to meet the demands. That is why we owe our support to the associations which carry out so many essential actions in our country. The rest, the fundamental policy I believe in, is to ensure that no one needs food aid to feed themselves and their families. We are also working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u38	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Patrice Anato has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u39	The successive confinements and curfews, necessary to save lives, must not make us forget the millions of people who have suffered in the closed confinements, especially in a department like that of the Seine-Saint-Denis. I am thinking of elderly people, students, single-parent families or precarious workers, often on the front lines in the face of this health crisis. I am also thinking of the leaders of TPE-SME and their employees, particularly in the sectors most affected by the crisis: restoration, culture and tourism, shopping centres and many other sectors that do not know what will be done tomorrow. Many accompanying, assistance and support mechanisms and measures have been put in place by our majority and the Government, but efforts must be continued to provide an adequate solution to each problem. Beyond hunger, coldness, access to a roof, the possibility of clothing or access to culture, inequality has marked this pandemic: access to digital technology. Addressing it now through a massive plan is one of the safest ways to limit the lasting effects of poverty and illiteracy. In May 2020, during his hearing in the National Assembly, the Defender of Rights Jacques Toubon estimated that 13 million people were affected by illiteracy. In view of this, I would like to know what action is being taken to combat illiteracy and the digital divide at a time when digital is an essential tool, and how the fight against digital poverty is linked with all public policies to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u41	You are right: one out of every four disadvantaged families has no computer equipment at home. During the confinement, everyone noted the damage that could result from this on students who did not have access to tele-education. In response to the urgency of the health crisis, particularly the risk of dropping out of school, the Government wished to increase the access of young people to computer equipment: in the spring of 2020, 17,000 young people were equipped with a computer and an Internet connection, thanks to the financial support provided by the State to Operation Emergency Connection. In addition, important steps are being taken under the Recovery Plan: EUR 250 million reinforces the Digital Inclusion Strategy, which focuses on three main areas. The first is to deploy 4000 digital advisors France services, in order to offer all French people introductory workshops for the use of digital technology. When I was a Member of Parliament for Isère, I myself had noticed that some elderly people did not control the operation of a computer. The fact that associations help them fight isolation and train them in digital skills at all ages. The second axis concerns support for community networks: EUR 40 million will be used to finance the design and provision of digital support kits, which actors will be able to deploy in the territories. The third axis, which mobilises EUR 10 million, aims to support carers, i.e. social workers, town hall secretaries, or reception workers. We will thus generalise the Aidants connect system, a digital service developed within the ANC's incubator – the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories – to legally secure professional carers who carry out administrative procedures on behalf of users. This is an important point. This generalisation will also speed up the increase in the skills of carers, thanks to specific digital training. Finally, these measures complement the decisions taken over the past two years within the framework of the national strategy for digital inclusion: 2 million digital passes are being deployed to accompany 400,000 people, for a budget of 22 million euros; thirteen territories experiment with Helpers Connect service; 170 third places "Territory factories" are listed and 11 territorial hubs cover 67 departments to equip local structures. Anyway, we're moving forward, and we're not gonna stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u42	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u43	As everyone knows, the health consequences of the covid-19 crisis remain of concern. Everyone also knows that this unprecedented epidemic is leading to a social crisis of which we fear the magnitude. Nevertheless, it is important to mention all the exceptional measures and aids that have helped to alleviate the violence of the consequences of the crisis. I would like to recall the substantial support that has been given to the voluntary sector and to the most vulnerable groups, whose shift in funding for food aid and emergency housing is a good example. Solidarity has increased, which I would like to pay tribute to here. State intervention is the EUR 94 million mobilised for food aid, the additional EUR 50 million distributed in the form of food cheques to the homeless, or the exceptional aid paid automatically to the beneficiaries of active solidarity income. The crisis has sometimes affected territories unevenly, often exacerbating existing situations. The Prime Minister, last autumn, announced that the taking over of the RSA would no longer be a departmental responsibility, on an experimental basis, for the Seine-Saint-Denis department. This is already the case for Mayotte and Guyana since 1 January 2019, and for La Réunion since 1 January 2020. The allocation to these departments is estimated at EUR 878 million. Their recentralisation will not only make it possible to secure the payment of the allowance to all beneficiaries, but also, for the departments concerned, to develop more appropriate integration policies. Certain provisions of the future law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexification, known as 4D, would aim at experimenting, for a period of five years, with the recentralization of the management of the RSA. Funding would then be provided by family benefit funds and agricultural social mutual funds. Can you tell us when the new conventions would be adopted and whether it is planned to extend these experiments to other departments by then?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u45	The issue of renationalization of the RSA to prevent poverty is old, legitimate and complex. You mentioned four examples: Guyana, Mayotte, La Réunion and, in the context of the future 4D law, the Seine-Saint-Denis. This debate is far from exhausted. The renationalization of the RSA is not included in the 4D law, first because the majority of the departmental councils are not in favour of it, then because the life-size experiment in Seine-Saint-Denis will be useful to verify that things are in order before going further if future governments make the choice. There is a clear interest in such a measure, but its application would be rather complex. Moving quickly from experimentation in a few departments to generalization would pose a lot of questions. First of all, budgetary balances must be ensured. The departmental council which would benefit from a recentralisation of the funding of the RSA should compensate the State through a transfer of resources: one imagines how sensitive the discussion on this subject is, especially in the run-up to the forthcoming departmental elections. It would then be necessary to determine – a delicate but indispensable question – which entity would have competence in the guidance of the beneficiaries of the RSA, which, in addition to the monetary allocation, also, if not more, takes part in an integration approach. In the case of recentralisation, what actors in the territories would lead this integration process to accompany unemployed people towards a project that would allow them to live on something other than this monetary allowance? All this therefore requires a calm and careful debate, and to observe how these life-size experiments are carried out in practice, even though the departments concerned have naturally surrounded them with all the necessary guarantees and security. Perhaps we will go further in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u46	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u47	In the light of the health crisis, we must ask ourselves about the idea of a nation, which implies unity, a will to live together. Didn't Ernest Renan see the existence of a nation as "a plebiscite of every day"? This idea thus joins our republican values, through the fraternity that is a call to national solidarity. The greatness of a nation also consists, and I would say above all, of listening to its fellow citizens and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of everyone with respect for their dignity. For more than three years, much has been done to reduce inequalities: support for single-parent families, upgrading of the activity premium, measures to promote access to care but also training and learning through the plan "1 young person 1 solution" – the list is long. Although, in absolute terms, poverty has declined, according to INSEE, there is no question here of appearing as a paragon of virtue through a panegyric praise. Food aid is perhaps the most pressing social emergency. More than two million people, 70 per cent of whom are women, use it. With the crisis, food banks have seen the number of these beneficiaries grow, whether they are poor workers or students. Let us recall here the reactivity of the state, which, in the face of social emergencies, has spent 144 million euros on food aid, on the distribution of meals to the homeless as well as to the students. Let us also recall Europe's support through the unprecedented increase in the European Fund for Assistance to the Most Deprived, of which we are benefiting. So how can we better adapt the food aid provided by this fund to the needs expressed by the neighbourhood associations, both in the city and in rural areas, as close as possible to our fellow citizens? How can we consider simplifying the procedures for authorising this European fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u48	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u49	It is true that the Government is, of course, fully mobilized on the issue of food aid to the poorest. You mentioned the EUR 144 million increase, but we could also mention the EUR 100 million call for projects to support associations, the 48% increase in European credits over the period 2021-2027 – a considerable increase – the two daily meals to EUR 1 to which students receive, all the exceptional solidarity aid paid in May, June and October to help families in distress faced with income cuts, or food aid specific to the ultramarine territories. Among the reforms that the Government has identified as priorities are two that combine food and poverty reduction. These are measures which I believe in fundamental terms and which I will strongly defend in the coming weeks and months, at the heart of the territories, to mobilise local elected representatives who are not yet elected: I am talking about the introduction of free breakfasts in schools, and the canteen at less than 1 euro, especially in rural communes. These devices are budgetd, funded, they work perfectly, they have a real social impact since they help children to feed themselves properly, but they are not yet taking off sufficiently. With Jean-Michel Blanquer, Adrien Taquet and Nathalie Élimas, we have identified different levers to operate: we are increasing the participation of the State, both for breakfasts and for canteens. We raise awareness among prefects, rectors and regional commissioners of the fight against poverty. Soon we will take our pilgrim's staff and go to the elected ones, territory by territory, to urge them very strongly to apply these devices. A child who arrives empty stomach at school is a child who will learn less well. Scottish experience showed that in primary school, a child who had breakfast at school earned the equivalent of a month of learning reading and two months of learning mathematics. Sometimes measures that may seem obvious are not so simple as it is believed to be in place in the territories; That is why we also need national representation. Dear Members, see in your constituencies your regional commissioners for the fight against poverty, your rectors, your DASENs, the academic directors of the national education services, your prefects and local elected officials. We finance these measures; So they have to see each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u50	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u51	Inevitably, the health crisis has had harmful effects on the whole country, but especially on the most modest of us. Elected from Roubaix and Wattrelos, I have a thought for all families who, with great dignity and combativity, face every day the terrible social consequences of the pandemic. First of all, I will mention these consequences from the point of view of employment, because, in our country, work is one of the tools in the service of emancipation. In the first half of 2020, 715000 jobs were destroyed, many French people experienced declines in activity related to partial unemployment, in particular the workers – 54% of them involved – and the employees – 36% – while the executives were more spared – 26% – thanks to telework. From the income point of view, then, the effects and the facts are without appeal. In the second quarter of 2020, households experienced a 2.7% loss of income, the largest decline since 1949. This deterioration is even more difficult in households where incomes were already low. Of the 10 per cent of the poorest households, 35 per cent see a deterioration in their financial situation, twice as many as the 10 per cent of the most affluent households. It's a long list, alas! I will not mention in detail the educational inequalities or the particular difficulties faced by single-parent families. In the face of this situation, we did not remain attentists: exceptional aid of 100 euros in May, plus the additional 150 euros per month for RSA beneficiaries and for students, or the increase of 100 euros per child for the school start-up premium. The President of the Republic had said that it was necessary to protect the French "no matter what the cost". That's what we did. Today, tomorrow, we must continue on this path. Our system of solidarity has shown that it is among the most protective on the planet. Minister, my question is relatively simple: can you, first of all, assure us that the state and social security will remain committed to the most modest as long as it is necessary? Lastly, from a longer-term perspective, had the Government considered how to stem new forms of insecurity, whether they were linked to employment, education, housing or all other areas of public policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u53	Madam Member, I will find it very difficult to answer all your questions in two minutes. You asked me if social security would remain with the most modest; I can already tell you that she will be, tomorrow even more than yesterday. At the heart of the crisis, social protection not only covered all health care, as I said earlier, directly, without even the intervention of complementary health care – I would like to emphasize – but also that it did not fail either in its tasks relating to retirement or in those relating to unemployment. She paid everything she had to pay, and she automatically extended fees to avoid breach of duties. In addition, you have strengthened it, Madam Member, by voting, at the heart of the health crisis, for the creation of the fifth branch, so that its scope will be even greater in the years, in the decades or even in the centuries to come. Social security is valuable. Of course, we will have to think about a way to protect it from a financial point of view. For the "whatever it costs" has a cost and it is essential that social security, on which a debt weighs today, find ways of balance. This will be the subject of further discussion: we do not debate how to pay an invoice when we spend money to protect the French, avoid job losses and pay for health care. We need to realize the value of our health care system. The French abroad measure it, they who, in many countries, are very far from having access to the same benefits as our fellow citizens on the territory. It's good to call him back. In addition, many support plans have been planned, as we have already mentioned earlier: the EUR 3.5 billion of exceptional aid, the EUR 7 billion of the plan "a young person, a solution", the plan France re-launches, the increase in exceptional aid for families with children, the increase in the school start-up allowance, the 30% increase in the supplement of free choice of care for single-parent families or the public food service – which may be mentioned just now – which represents an important step forward in the field of social protection and which responds in particular to the demands of the so-called yellow vest movement. In short, we have achieved social conquests during this difficult period of our history; We'll know how to keep them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u54	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u55	Poverty takes several forms. The confinements highlighted one of them: food insecurity. The closure of markets – the end of broken prices – and the closure of school canteens, places where all children can enjoy high-quality meals at low prices, have been a hard blow for our poorest compatriots. But the health situation required these measures. Since March 2020, demand for food aid has increased sharply. The Government responded quickly by unlocking 39 million euros in April 2020, 25 of which were earmarked for associations, you recalled earlier. This answer was up to the stakes. We have also seen the development of new forms of food solidarity within the commune, the neighbourhood, the building and the direct neighbourhood. The associations, whether specialized or not, have played a major role, and I would like to pay tribute here to the tremendous work done by volunteers, some of whom are students, others are partially unemployed. Yet, in many cases, they have been deprived. Technical constraints, lack of communication, lack of data and information on target audiences, high rates of non-use of aid or lack of logistical support: precariousness is not only financial, it is also technical. The President of the Republic announced the creation of a food check for the poorest people in order not only to respond to the precarious situation but also to ensure access to a healthy and quality diet. This is another problem: the cheapest products are sometimes the most processed and therefore the worst for health. For this reason, the food check can be a very good measure. Beyond all these mechanisms, how could the State accompany and sustain these structures and the spontaneous associative approaches we have observed during confinements? How can we ensure that every person in a situation of food insecurity can actually benefit from the aid to which he or she is entitled? In short, how can we operationally implement the necessary food justice to combat this form of poverty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u57	During the health crisis, especially during the period of widespread confinement, I witnessed – like you, I am sure – quite exceptional scenes. The associations were afraid of a lack of arms fearing that their volunteers, who had often reached a certain age, would be forced to protect themselves from covid-19. But not only the old breakers – I use this expression affectionately – who have been present for years in these food banks, while protecting themselves, have remained faithful to the post office, but we have also seen the influx of young people who want to help, aware of the difficulties that could arise in this period. That's great. The associations have told us that they intend to keep these young people who, even if they do not give as much time as pensioners, represent a renewal and complete the gaps. Volunteerism and the spirit of solidarity have a future, as do these associations to which our country owes so much. I would prefer, of course, that we no longer need them, but since we know that this will not be the case for a while, we must consolidate them. That is why we support them financially, we respond to their requests and we organise meetings with them – including in the presence of the Prime Minister, as was the case a few days ago. We're really listening to them. Among the proposals was the idea of a food check. The definition of contours, as they say, is in the process of arbitration. Beyond the social reach, the idea is also to help access quality food, combat global warming and promote short circuits and a sustainable agricultural model. I won't say it's "win-win" – I hate this expression that reminds me of bad memories – but it's winning every time. We will see exactly what form this measure will take. Then, with Clement Beaune, we went to the European Union to seek funding for food aid. I repeat, over the period 2021-2027, European appropriations are increasing by 48% in six years, which is enormous. Europe is therefore also at the meeting. We will always be at the side of the associations and will support all the very beautiful social innovations we see in our country. We would also benefit from working on the evaluation of social policies as they are carried out in the territories. We sometimes find very nice experiments, which would deserve to be disseminated or generalized but which are not necessarily known. We are therefore working on the method of evaluating these social policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u58	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u59	The epidemic crisis has led to a considerable rise in poverty and a widening of inequalities, as we all know. It has aggravated an already alarming situation: more than 9 million people now live below the poverty line: temporary workers, unemployed people, students, self-entrepreneurs, artisans, and many others, alas! We can fear that this phenomenon will take root and persist, because we know it: once it falls into precariousness, it is very difficult to get out of it. Several social shock absorbers have been mobilized and strengthened, but not all of them are able to respond to the urgency of the daily lives of many people. However, some avenues have been raised. While they have received the consent of all, they have not yet been implemented. I am thinking of food checks: proposed by the Citizen Climate Convention, they would allow the most modest households to buy quality food products, responding to a logic of short or organic circuits according, in short, to a win-win formula for modest consumers as well as for farmers. On December 14, the President of the Republic made a commitment to implement food cheques, but this measure is not included in the climate and resilience bill, which we are about to consider. Minister, what is the status of this promise? What form will the food checks take and how much will they be? Who are they going to benefit from? Can we hope that the timetable will accelerate as the precarious situation worsens and the queues increase in front of food aid associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u61	I have already had the opportunity to raise the question of the food check. As we are at the technical training stage, I cannot answer you about the beneficiaries, their amount or the frequency of their distribution. I will therefore remain in the spirit of the scheme, which you yourself have mentioned: it is a question of combating food insecurity and environmental insecurity while encouraging good behaviour. The food cheque will not compete with food aid associations. It will complement and we will need the expertise of these associations to build an ambitious and effective mechanism. Should an ad hoc mechanism and a new public service be created ex nihilo or should existing arrangements be strengthened alongside local authorities, many of which are mobilizing in this field? The question has not yet been resolved. We are in the arbitration stage, which explains the absence of this measure in the bill. Nevertheless, it will come into being very quickly, the President of the Republic is very committed to the subject, and I work there with Julien Denormandie for the agriculture component.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u62	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u63	For several months now, I have been drawing the Government's attention to the situation of seasonal workers, who suffer the full economic and social consequences of the health crisis. Many of them have consumed – or are consuming – their unemployment rights during periods when they should have worked, which would normally have allowed them to reload their rights. Seasonal workers in the tourism sector are in this situation: while they usually run short or seasonal contracts, they find themselves without activity and especially without visibility for the future. Of course, exceptional aid has been set up for them; It was recently extended until May. However, this minimum income guarantee of 900 euros per month, as well as the extension of unemployment rights for those who have reached the end of the second confinement, are only partial responses to the situation of these employees. Despite these measures, many workers find themselves in a precarious situation and are unable to pay their rent at the end of the month or to feed themselves properly. I would like to commend the tremendous work of charitable associations and food banks, as well as the local solidarity actions that are taking place to support these people. My colleague Michel Castellani has just asked you about the issue of food cheques to vulnerable audiences: this could be a short-term solution to help them feed themselves better. Does the Government envisage new measures to support these workers in the longer term and avoid their impoverishment? Mr Minister, are you considering, particularly for seasonal workers, the introduction of a scheme similar to that of the white year for the intermittents of the show? The latter hope to see it continue, given the lack of visibility on the reopening of cultural places.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u64	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u65	Madam Member, I dare not talk about long-term measures with regard to seasonal workers... I hope that we will get through this in the short term and that we will soon no longer need it. Nevertheless, you point to the particular problem, but important, encountered by seasonal workers. I will take the example of ski resorts, some of which are not very far from your riding. The Government decided to let the stations hire seasonal workers, as if nothing were happening,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u66	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u67	... in order to enable them to benefit from the partial activity arrangements for the entire season. In practice, 95% of the station's seasonal employees received 84% of their usual net income. This is a substantial effort: it represents a total of EUR 1.2 billion for all support schemes for seasonal workers. This scheme has been extended for all other employees and the Government has put in place an aid to the "allowants", with an income guarantee of 900 euros by me: 400,000 people have benefited from it, and it was extended in May. On a daily basis, these expenses are not the most visible for citizens, even if they suspect that measures are being taken, otherwise the seasonal ones would not survive and the disaster would be worse than the one we know. Behind what is not necessarily visible, billions of euros are mobilised to support these workers and to ensure that, if they do not live from their activity, they can live until they can work again as soon as the situation permits. Let us all know that this will be done not in the long term, but as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u68	This does not answer the problems of ski resorts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u69	We come to the questions of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u70	The health crisis has had a particularly serious impact on many sectors of activity and on employees working there. Women have suffered particularly from the economic effects of the covid-19 crisis, and this is likely to worsen over time. A resident of my constituency told me about her daily life during successive periods of confinement: while she was on telework, she also had to take care of her two young children. As a manager in a large company, she did not want to stop working as government arrangements allowed; She feared that she would have an impact on her career and advancement. Moreover, the tourism, hotel and catering sectors, which are highly feminized and where insecurity and part-time work are common, are still weakened by an uncertain future, precarising the majority of women. These women's stories illustrate well the findings of France's step note Strategy on poverty at the time of the covid-19, which points out that many of the economic sectors affected by the health crisis are particularly feminized, but also that it was especially women who ensured the care of children – and the resulting mental burden – during the closures of schools. For these reasons, women are more likely to fall into poverty. The effects of the crisis are accentuated with regard to single-parent families,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u71	Mr. Member, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u72	... it is likely to have a lasting impact on the careers of the women concerned and to drag them to poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u73	Ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u74	Minister, what steps are you going to take to ensure that the consequences of this health crisis do not worsen existing inequalities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we must try to respect your speaking time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u76	Mr President, thank you for your question about the economic impact of the health crisis on the situation of women. It is true that it has more specifically affected women, who account for 85 per cent of the heads of single-parent families. For this reason, the measures put in place have protected, in particular, single-parent families. I will mention a few: most of the exceptional assistance paid during the crisis was increased for single-parent families with children; we have allowed these families to benefit from an advance on entitlement to the RSA or the adult disability allowance during confinement; we have also upgraded the start-up allowance to the amount of 100 euros. More structurally, we have carried out important reforms to combat women's job insecurity and economic inequalities between women and men. For example, the massive increase in the activity premium at the end of 2018 – 90 euros in addition to the SMIC – has benefited single-parent families who receive an average of 244 euros per month, compared to 198 euros before the reform. I will also refer to the public support service. It is of course necessary to give him time to live and wait for the former couples to sign up for it; However, in the future, there will never again be inadequate or no maintenance payments at all; However, they account for 17% of the income of single-parent families. This essential reform came fully into force on 1 January 2021. I already talked about free breakfasts at school earlier. As part of the structural reforms, I will mention the Ségur de la santé, of which I am very proud, which has resulted in €8 billion in salary increases for 1.5 million employees, of which 85% are women. This helps to reduce the wage gap between women and men across the country. There is also easier access to day-care centres and various forms of childcare, as well as the bonus-malus provided for under the unemployment reform, which will penalise companies that use short contracts, which are highly feminized. As you can see, with Elizabeth Moreno and Elizabeth Borne, and more broadly the entire Government and the majority, we are moving forward on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u77	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u78	I will ask my first question on behalf of my colleague Michèle de Vaucouleurs, who could not be present today. The health crisis we face leads to the impoverishment of certain categories of the population, because of its impact on economic activity. Among the people most affected by the crisis are those whose incomes were partly, or in aggregate, derived from the informal economy. The sectors that usually employ a large number of informal workers are hotels, restaurants, food retailing, construction, guarding and transportation. If it is difficult to accurately assess its importance, according to the latest report of the Employment Policy Council, the underground economy – including undeclared work and the criminal or criminal economy – would represent 12.6% of French GDP. It would have more weight in the overseas countries, particularly in Mayotte and Guyana; A total of 2.5 million people would be affected by this difficult-to-measure sector of the economy. The informal market sector for the production of goods and services covers two categories of workers: undocumented workers, who have no choice but not to be declared, and persons who benefit from social minimums or who have low remuneration or a small pension, who supplement their income with undeclared activities, including many family jobs. As informal sector workers are not reported, it is very difficult to assess their income losses in the face of the covid-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, the International Labour Organization estimates that the first month of the crisis has led to a 60% decline in the income of informal workers around the world. Minister, how does the Government intend to best identify workers who depend on these sectors? In the context of a pandemic – which could become recurrent – should we not consider the recognition of the informal sector through the regularization of undocumented workers? How do you envisage reducing the non-use of rights and social assistance for those who can claim it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u79	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u80	It is a complex question that Mrs de Vaucouleurs asks through you... Earlier, we recalled that social security, our common good, operates on a simple principle: we contribute according to its means, we receive according to its needs. The problem is that informal workers do not contribute, so they do not open up rights to social security benefits. That being said, I would point out that moral judgment is not appropriate when we speak of people facing insecurity. But our social security is all the better when workers contribute and things are done properly. No one can deny that illegal workers exist. Similarly, persons who are not clandestine may engage in activities that are clandestine, thereby finding themselves in breach of rights or in difficulty. To help them, we can rely, for example in the field of health, on the PASS system, the health care access permanences, or the LHSS, the health care stopping beds. There is also the whole network of associations, all associations such as Médecins du monde and NGOs working in the territory. Non-assistance to people in danger is not part of our country's DNA, we agree: we therefore find other types of safety nets or safety nets for these people. But it is in fact that the informal incomes of the persons concerned have fallen during the period of confinement, which, everyone can understand, has worsened their situation. I will therefore give you a two-step answer: let us make sure that in the future the same rules apply to everyone, so that all French people have the same rights, it is fundamental; Then, let us intervene very directly to help people who are in misery and distress – by showing the utmost vigilance towards them – and by relying on the fabric of society and on all the meshes of the net that our social protection offers, including for those who do not contribute for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u81	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor again, on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u82	Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, I had already spoken in the Chamber on 12 January during our debate on anti-poverty policies. With covid-19, the populations that were already the most vulnerable are the most exposed to the virus and suffer the most severe social impacts. In New Aquitaine, juvenile precariousness is particularly strong in certain areas, such as the urban community of the Grand Poitiers or Limoges Métropole, but also in Gironde, for example in the foyen country or, at home, in the South Gironde. For students, charitable associations such as the Secours populaire or food banks, which I greet, have sometimes had to replace the disappearance of small jobs. In New Aquitaine, 109,000 young people are neither employed nor trained: they suffer from a loss of sense of learning, poor working conditions – depending on the housing occupied by the family and the number of people at home – and lack adequate digital materials. In response to this situation, the State has signed a three-year convention with the Regional Council on the implementation of the obligation to train young people between the ages of 16 and 18. Unfortunately, this device is not perfect. The fight against the problems of poverty and precariousness among young people requires a cross-cutting response involving support for youth associations and the strengthening of food aid for students. It is also necessary to mobilise, within the framework of a genuine structured dialogue, all the networks of popular education and youth, local missions and integration institutions, in order to design and animate public policies for young people in the regions, which may contribute to the treatment of the difficulties of young people, but also to offer opportunities that give meaning to their social or civic involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u84	Communities have multiplied initiatives, as have the State and the Government. How can we amplify this support and further improve the coordination of the various mechanisms at the service of young people, their support and their future?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u85	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u86	You are asking me about the precariousness of young people and how best to respond to this problem. We fully agree with you on all the issues that you have mentioned, whether it is the fight against the reproduction of inequalities, equal opportunities, or the question of the coordination of actors, to the point that these themes correspond to the main orientations of what was already, in 2018, remember, the strategy of prevention and fight against poverty. We have been implementing this strategy since that time, with the first priority being the need to facilitate access to rights and to combat the reproduction of inequalities. You've talked a lot about young people and I'll come back, but where I am from, I'll be able to talk a little bit about childhood. We are fighting the inequalities that appear from an early age, for example through the "social mix" bonus for the creation of nursery places, or through the duplication of classes of CP and CE1 in a number of neighbourhoods, which are often referred to. I am also thinking of two ambitious measures to which the President of the Republic attaches particular importance: breakfasts at school and the social pricing of canteens. I would add, in order to arrive at the youth you mentioned, the obligation of training for all young people up to the age of 18, which will come into force very concretely next September, the mobilisation of more than 100,000 places per year as a guarantee for young people, or the reinforced support of young people leaving social assistance for children; I do not go into the details of the measures I announced a few weeks ago. You also stress the need to strengthen the coordination of the actors involved in these policies, and you mention a number of partnerships between the State and your department. This is obviously the whole meaning of the inter-ministerial strategy that we are deploying, and this corresponds to the very concrete leadership role that the eighteen commissioners for the fight against poverty, appointed on 2 September 2019, play on the ground. The success of this strategy and its implementation obviously depends on the mobilisation, good coordination and good cooperation of all the actors: the state, local authorities and associations that I would like to greet after you, Madam Member. Please be aware that 135 million euros were delegated by the State to the departments in 2019, and 175 million euros in 2020; It'll be $200 million in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u87	We come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u88	Students, young people, single-parent families, artisans, traders, extras, temporary workers, self-entrepreneurs, employees weakened by partial unemployment: these are the new faces of the million more precarious that our country counts. The health crisis has been a strong indicator of social inequalities: they persist and grow. In 2020, the number of AHR recipients increased by 7.5% according to the latest DREES figures, i.e., the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics. In my department of Sarthe, the increase was 13.5 per cent in the same year: the total number of beneficiaries thus reached 24,000. Your poverty strategy, launched in 2018, which was already slow to produce effects before the crisis, has been totally undersized and has finally broken down in the face of the explosion of poverty and the deterioration of the economic situation. The universal income of activity which was to be its flagship is now dead letter. If no one could anticipate the magnitude of this crisis, it would be unconscious not to look at it in the face. There is an urgent need to upgrade the social minimums, in particular the RSA. This is the first recommendation of the CNLE – National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion. According to DREES, one in two people living below the poverty line has an arbitrable standard of living of less than 340 euros to eat, dress, move, or even save. For one in four people, this income is less than 170 euros, and if food and transport are included in the expenditure burden, the income arbitrable falls to 80 euros on average for the poorest 10%. We can no longer respond to the massification of this poverty with exceptional aid, as you have done since the beginning of the crisis, otherwise we run the risk of creating a social divide that our country might not recover from. We need break-up decisions that do not distinguish, on the one hand, the poor who are considered deserving of their benefit and, on the other hand, the bad ones to which would be offered as the only answer an incentive to return to employment even though there are no jobs available – let alone your unemployment reform whose effects promise to be harmful. Secretary of State, I ask only one question: are you finally going to recalibrate your poverty strategy with this urgency and the risk that our democratic health is at risk?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u89	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u90	Madam Member, I cannot let you say that we would oppose one category of the population to another. On the contrary, all the measures we take and which you have cited are complementary and coordinated. Yes, the anti-poverty strategy, of which I have already mentioned a number of axes, is beginning to produce some effects, contrary to what you mentioned, but this is obviously not enough given the context we know. Yes, a massive effort is being made, in line with the Government's political philosophy, which has been ours since the beginning, to invest massively in recovery and to enable a number of fellow citizens to preserve their jobs or to find one. Yes, there are finally a number of exceptional measures, not just short-term ones, which, for some, have real structural effects to support the most fragile, the most precarious during the crisis. In total, more than €3.5 billion of direct support has been allocated to vulnerable people through the funding of exceptional solidarity aid paid in May, June and October. There has been an exceptional revalorisation of the school start-up allowance; the Christmas bonus; the EUR 880 million for exceptional solidarity aid granted automatically on 15 May to more than four million households in difficulty; the EUR 160 million that was used to provide EUR 200 to 800,000 young people in difficulty in June, or – excuse me for drawing up the figures – the EUR 530 million for the exceptional upgrading of the school start-up allowance in order to support families. So very concrete things have been done to accompany, help and relieve our most precarious citizens in their daily lives. Three additional aid payments were made at the end of November: nearly 4.7 million households were able to benefit from a total of almost EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u91	These are not long-term solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u92	On the health front, we are also pursuing a proactive policy towards the populations I have just mentioned. I am thinking, for example, of the more than 250 million masks provided free of charge to the most vulnerable and the associations that accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u93	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u94	The current crisis has only a multiplier effect: if as many French people have turned into poverty in recent months, it is good that they were already in situations of fragility before the appearance of the covid-19. According to the Observatory of Inequalities, the sixth world power has 9.3 million poor people, referring to a poverty line set at 60 per cent of median income. Nearly 15% of the population lives on just over 1000 euros per month: in these conditions, how to feed properly when you have to pay your rent, loan, energy bills, phone bills, internet...? Poverty has consequences that decency obliges us not to qualify as annexes, such as social isolation or the development of psychological disorders. The president of ATD Quart Monde, Isabelle Bouyer, reminded him, last week, that "government officials do not imagine the shame and humiliation" felt by the French who resort to food aid, which, since the beginning of the epidemic, students and workers have to appeal massively. It is more than time to simply "manage poverty" as Ms. Bouyer said, but to fight its causes. Ambitious and innovative schemes are regularly proposed, including a new distribution of wealth, the creation of a universal income, the taxation of financial income, or the creation of social security for sustainable food. The widening of inequalities requires reflection on these tools of solidarity. Mr Secretary of State, what ambitious measures does the Government intend to put in place to lift the millions of French people who face poverty every day and who will again be affected by future economic, social and environmental crises?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u95	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u96	Madam Member, you are right: we need an ambitious but also a global, cross-cutting and structural approach – I bounce back on your remarks while completing my previous answers. Combating poverty means defining this structural strategy to reduce inequalities from childhood onwards. Once again, it is the full meaning of the €8.5 billion poverty prevention and reduction strategy that we have been deploying since 2018. There is, of course, an urgent need and we are taking a number of emergency measures, but we will also have to judge the structural measures we are talking about in a generation. In our country, it takes six generations to get out of poverty: that is what we are fighting against. Combating poverty also means ensuring access to health for all, without financial barriers – you mentioned the subject in an incidental way. We have worked in this direction by ensuring that no one has to give up financial care, thanks to complementary health care and the introduction of 100% health care since 1 January 2021. All optical, dental and auditory care is now covered at 100%. In addition, the Ségur de la santé spends EUR 100 million to combat health inequalities. Combating poverty is, of course, protecting the most fragile, which we have been doing since the beginning of this crisis with a number of measures that I have taken in response to your colleague, including an upgrading of a number of social minima in addition to direct aid. Finally, as I said, combating poverty means reviving growth in order to combat unemployment and finance our social protection model, and safeguarding employment and our businesses, no matter what the cost, here too. Thanks to the France Recovery Plan, we have invested EUR 100 billion to revive growth, and almost EUR 7 billion is spent on the "1 young 1 solution" plan, so that this generation is not a sacrificed generation, it is an investment in the integration into the training and the hiring of our young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u97	We turn to the questions of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u98	I would like to begin by thanking our colleagues in the La France group, who are no longer with us, for raising this debate on the impact of the pandemic on poverty. However, I doubt that there is a single parliamentary group or Member in the Chamber who is not convinced of the importance and urgency of fighting both poverty and the risk of poverty that threatens our fellow citizens. I obviously welcome the Government's commitment on all fronts – we talked about young people and independents – to deal with this shock that is likely to hit our country. I would like to refer to a risk other than that of the pandemic: climate risk. Since the tabling in the Assembly of the bill on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, we have been working on this issue. This is a major risk that also puts our citizens at increased risk of poverty. This risk is direct: in my constituency, the drought has led to the cracking of houses, and some of my fellow citizens, especially in Bondues, find themselves without anything, facing an uninsured risk because they are not recognized as a natural disaster. This is a concrete example of how climate change can lead to poverty and housing insecurity. In housing, the risk may also be indirect. We advocate resilience, adaptation to climate change, and we call on the French to make great efforts to adapt. For example, the global renovation is going to be necessary with the climate and resilience bill, but let us be careful, for the most modest of them, not to replace energy insecurity with short-term precariousness... Climate risk is a direct and indirect threat to poverty. If I have allowed myself to make this detour, it is because the question of poverty asks us about the society of all the risks we are already facing. Although the Government has done everything it can with the current system and public policies, we need to rethink the mechanisms for protecting against this risk of poverty. All risks are potentially creating poverty. That is why the Group of the European People's Party is defending, as you know, a universal income mechanism, which seems to us to be the right answer. How do you intend to contribute to this debate initiated by my colleagues?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u99	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u100	We fully agree with you that adaptation to climate change is a necessity. It is a duty that must engage society as a whole, regardless of the standard of living, and we must of course take into account the effects on the edge and the impact on the social issue. The Government is fully engaged, hand in hand with parliamentarians. The review of the Climate and Resilience Bill begins these days in committee. I think you're playing an important role. This bill will address a number of these issues. The Citizens' Convention, of which 20% of the proposals are already in the process of being implemented, strongly inspires it. In addition, within the framework of France Relance, investments make it possible to "green", as they say, our economy as well as our ways of doing things: I am thinking of the 4 billion euros dedicated to the renovation of public buildings, the 7 billion for the greening of transport or the 50 million investment in school canteens. The 2021 finance bill has also made it possible to adopt the most ecological budget in the history of our republic. You, parliamentarians, assessed the ecological dimension of each of these expenditure items. I can't go back in detail. Fighting climate change cannot be a rich problem. Our ambition is that all French people can participate – but not necessarily – in this green revolution, and we know that it is more difficult, when faced with insecurity, to change their consumption habits: every euro counts in a budget. That is why we have considerably strengthened the resources devoted to the energy renovation of buildings and to the renovation of the social park, as social donors have been encouraged to abolish energy coffers by 2023. These are some elements of a response to the link between ecological revolution and social impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u101	That wasn't my question...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u102	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u103	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the proposal, which I made last June to the city of Paris, to create a rent guarantee fund. The health crisis is also an economic and social crisis, and many of our citizens have lost or may lose purchasing power. Yet they must be kept in their homes; It's vital for them, for their future. This concerns the whole country, but especially Paris and other major cities where rents are very high. I hope that communities and the state will be able to abound this rent guarantee fund. This would reassure the owners, the rent being paid, and it can keep individuals and families in their homes. Is the Government ready to move forward with local and regional authorities, particularly in metropolitan areas, to create this fund and to ensure that households that are in full crisis can continue to live in their homes during the crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u105	This is an opportunity for me, Mr President, to welcome your action in this area and the initiative you have taken with the Paris City Hall to create a rent guarantee fund. I regret that the dialogue with the community has stopped and was unable to allow it. I will share your question with Minister Emmanuelle Wargon. The Government shares your concern about the difficulties some households may face in paying their rent in the current context. As you know, Emmanuelle Wargon regularly gathers an observatory of unpaid rents and charges, composed of associations of donors, tenants, real estate agencies or even local authorities, to understand the evolution of the situation as closely as possible. For the time being, the observatory does not seem to have noted a massive increase in unpaid payments. But we remain very vigilant. We have extended the winter truce until May 31st in order to protect troubled tenants, and, in accordance with our tradition of this "at the same time" that you know well, we are currently working on solutions to help the most fragile households while taking measures to better compensate donors. That's what I can tell you at this point. I will not fail to pass on your question to the Deputy Minister, who will probably be able to complete my remarks and continue the discussions with you to see to what extent the State can accompany you on this subject, of which I know that it is very important to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u106	We come to the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u107	Anti-poverty associations are at the forefront of supporting our fellow citizens most affected by the economic consequences of the crisis. Traditionally, their action is complementary to the public policies deployed by the State, but the explosion of poverty caused by the health crisis leads them to assume an increasingly important part of the support of these shipwrecked of life. They offer a meal, hygiene products, sometimes a roof, always a consideration, an exchange, heat, because material poverty often leads to marginalization and the loss of social ties, the deconsideration of oneself, the abandonment of any prospect of the future. To support them, the State has opened an envelope of EUR 100 million deployed over two years in the form of calls for projects. This assistance is essential to support and amplify the activities of these associations, whose activities are growing as poverty progresses. To make poverty in our country lose ground, what does the Government intend to put in place to stimulate donations, encourage volunteerism and facilitate the action of these associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u109	Thank you, Madam Member, for welcoming the role of the associations and for giving me the opportunity to do so in my turn. They played a key role throughout the crisis. They have demonstrated their adaptability and responsiveness, of which we were confident, but which has once again proved absolutely necessary in order to find concrete solutions in a completely new context. This associative fabric is unique and valuable, and when needs increase, the state must be at the rendezvous and accompany them. That is why we spent EUR 94 million on strengthening food aid in 2020, of which EUR 84 million was paid to associations in the form of direct grants, both national and regional. We have also obtained the increase in European funding for food aid from 48% for the period 2021-2027 to 869 million euros; In the previous period 2014-2021, this funding amounted to EUR 583 million. We also wanted to support the associations with the France Relance plan. You mentioned this €100 million allocation for anti-poverty associations to help them implement specific actions that are closer to the needs of the people they serve. In concrete terms, this massive support plan will take the form of a first call for projects. It was published on November 24 and the final results will be announced at the end of March 2021, in a few weeks. The projects chosen will be designed to strengthen the mechanisms to meet the growing needs we face, to finance the use of local supplies for all matters relating to food, to develop cooperation in order to improve efficiency, to develop innovative services based on new technologies, and finally to support the logistical reorganization of the associations, which has had a significant impact on the period they have just passed. There are some elements of the answer, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u111	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u112	Non-use of rights is a problem that gangifies our public policies. Here in the National Assembly, we observe, we debate, we vote for devices designed to accompany our fellow citizens in difficulty, but a terrible fact is needed: many people who are eligible for these devices do not use them. Let us take one example: the allowance for self-employed workers – ATI –, in effect since November 2019, is a real safety net for self-employed people who have lost their jobs involuntarily, by providing them with a replacement income. At the time of its creation, it was estimated that 30,000 of the three million self-employed would be eligible. However, only 900 requests were made. This example is symptomatic of the non-use of rights that undermines our protection system, yet one of the most effective in the world. This situation is all the more unbearable in the context of the health crisis we are experiencing. Poverty is gaining ground despite the billions of euros injected to support our economy and to support our citizens in precarious conditions. But in order for these mechanisms to be effective, it is still necessary for those entitled to them to benefit from them. What do you intend to do to combat non-use of rights?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u113	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u114	It is a sense of absolute waste that one feels when faced with this kind of situation, and we know that this is the case for a number of allowances, with very high non-recourse rates. There is the identification of a problem, the formulation of solutions, a financial investment of the national community and then, ultimately, people who would need it and who cannot use it. I do not know, in the example you gave, the reasons that have been identified to explain this non-use; We will be able to discuss this later if you wish. It is clear that the first need is for insured persons to be aware of the rights to which they are entitled; It is true that over the years we have tended to create systems of such complexity, to stack the devices without necessarily rationalizing the existing ones, that the insured sometimes lose themselves and do not know that they are entitled to certain rights. Pedagogy and information are therefore a first necessity, but it cannot be satisfied and I think that two things need to be developed. First of all, we need to make use of what technological change allows us to do, in particular data mining, which now allows data to be pooled between different administrations and to identify situations, often of precarious nature, which should normally give access to rights that we see are not provided with. In the same way, we must increasingly adopt this famous "go-to" approach, which we are developing in the social field to identify the people concerned, because we know that a number of people, especially the most vulnerable, are very far from public institutions; It is up to us to put in place the devices to go to these invisible people, pass under the radars, identify them and allow them to enjoy the rights to which they should have access.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u115	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u116	These are more than 20 questions this afternoon on the subject of poverty. The covid crisis affects everyone, it affects older people, traders, young people, and more and more of our fellow citizens. All groups are mobilized, ours in particular, since we proposed fifteen concrete measures several weeks ago to respond urgently to poverty. I wanted to raise the issue of food this afternoon, but this has already been widely done; I therefore do not come back to it, even if, for us, the fact that the French can feed themselves is fundamental. I would like to refer to a second theme, the psychological consequences of the covid crisis. This mental suffering is a poverty in itself. The consequences are palpable: Epinal's pharmacists told me a few days ago that there have never been so many releases of psychotropic products, especially for younger people from 18 years of age. That is to say how much the feeling of ill-being is present in everyday life, as is isolation, the absence of a psychic bond. What concrete measures does your government intend to propose as a matter of urgency to enable the French to regain some oxygenation, breathing and horizon? My third inquiry, beyond food and psychological suffering, is about putting in a working situation. As we know, poverty is a trap to exclusion. To be excluded is to lose one's professional, social and civic rights and benchmarks. That is why it is necessary, at all costs, to enable all men and women in this country to see a professional horizon. The world of work must never be inaccessible to anyone. While poverty is gaining ground, what measures does the Government intend to take to enable those who are now excluded to take a first step towards integration structures? As we can see, we are now in a very poor position to help them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u117	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u118	Of particular concern to me is the question of mental health, which has been under discussion since the beginning of this session. The psychological consequences of the health crisis will unfortunately be important for children and especially for the younger ones. That's why I asked the National Fund for Family Allowances – CNAF – to vote for a specific budget envelope in order to provide the early childhood professionals with transparent masks: it is essential for the development of infants that they see the faces of the people who care for them. We have developed various tools with CNAF, national education and Robert Debré University Hospital to better identify the psychological suffering of primary and secondary school students. In addition, we are following closely the evolution of consultations at child-psychiatric emergencies. The situation is not uniform throughout the country, but we have seen in recent months, particularly at Robert Debré University Hospital, albeit in small cohorts, a 100% increase in visits to children and young adolescents for attempted suicide. As you know, the mental health of students is also at the heart of our concerns. The Government had increased the number of psychologists and social workers in universities and had introduced a psychological accompaniment check for students. In fact, we are seeing an increase in telephone calls to the various psychological support platforms, particularly in large cities. This increase applies not only to young people, but also to the 45-64 age group and women. The President of the Republic is particularly attentive in this regard and has recently met with psychiatrists and child psychiatrists. Work is under way and announcements should be made by the summer to strengthen the monitoring of the mental health of the French, as well as the accompaniment and management of disorders related to the health crisis. However, the mental health of young people is not a new issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u120	It arose even before the health crisis, which obviously worsened the situation, as did our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u121	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor for the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u122	It has never been easy to be poor but, in France of the Covid -19, poverty is even more difficult to live. This crisis is terribly unfair: it affects even the most vulnerable, the most excluded, the invisible. A large number of French people have discovered poverty in recent months. In the queues of food aid, new faces are met, people who for many were employed yesterday, were trained or educated. According to the Catholic Relief, these new poor people would be about a million. He is a student who lost his little job after the first confinement, a young graduate who struggles to find a first job, a businessman whose business will not reopen. It is also these men, women, students who lived in the informal economy and were engaged in undeclared jobs in restaurants, hotels and the childcare sector. For almost a year, France has done a lot. This is not about having selective memory. The Government has taken decisions that, for some, were very brave and certainly avoided the worst. The National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion and the associations have made proposals. Mr Secretary of State, has the Government implemented some of them or is it considering doing so? Unfortunately, the health crisis does not end. In this context, it is the imperative of social justice that must be our compass. I therefore regret the announcement this week by the Government of the return of the reform of unemployment insurance, which will result in the reduction of the benefits of a large number of precarious workers, those who alternate short contracts and periods of inactivity. In France of the Covid -19, it is no longer possible to cross the street to find a job. Any speech to the poor of promising and demanding a return to activity is therefore no longer admissible. Today, I solemnly call on the Government to abandon the reform of unemployment insurance, which will only lead to the strengthening of already glaring inequalities. What measures do you intend to implement to combat structurally the spread of poverty?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u123	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u124	I do not agree, Mrs Lazaar, with your position on the reform of unemployment insurance. Indeed, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the majority – to which you belong or have belonged... – has also made the return to employment an instrument to combat poverty. However, allow me to focus more on the first aspect of your question and on the proposals made last October by the CNLE, which you are chairing, in response to the health crisis and its effects on precariousness. It should be noted that eight of the twelve CNLE proposals have been implemented by the Government or are in the process of being implemented. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to commend the work of this body, as well as yours as Chair, and to recall the content of these proposals. These include the upgrading of the social minimums – already committed before the outbreak of the crisis, in particular for the disabled adult allowance – the strengthening of support for associations – we have just mentioned – the creation of a right to support for young people, the obligation to train young school dropouts between 16 and 18 years of age since September 2020, the "1 young person 1 solution" plan being deployed or the extension of the youth guarantee. The CNLE also stressed the issue of accessibility of public services – I mentioned a few moments ago the notion of "go towards" – with regard to the opening of rights and vaccination, and recommended the creation of covid -19 health centres, which have been opened and will be perpetuated until the end of the crisis. Thus, the recommendation regarding the urgent care of recipients of state medical aid – MEA – was followed with effect and there were no obstacles to covid-related care -19, testing or vaccination for this public – you probably found it yourself in your constituency. You also alerted the Government to the non-use of health care. The 100% health basket and the complementary health solidarity, which I mentioned earlier, are also elements of the response. Finally, the eighth of the measures that you drew our attention to was the perpetuation of the shipments of masks to the most precarious. Please be aware that a new distribution for this population is under way. In conclusion, let me once again welcome the work you are doing as President of the CNLE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u125	The questions session on the explosion of poverty following the covid-19 pandemic is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u126	The next item is the question of the report of the Committee of Inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people: how can we avoid a sacrificed generation? I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and each answer for Members and Ministers at two minutes, without the right of reply. We start with the Freedom and Territory Group's questions. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u127	Young people and students have been living under house arrest for almost a year. They are increasingly struggling with this situation, which no one can ignore. Difficulties arise in feeding, sheltering, and healing. Isolation is worsening due to the cessation of sports, cultural and social activities. The psychological consequences are dramatic and largely undervalued – we discussed them a few moments ago. We must also not ignore that students experience difficulties in learning, private that they are interactions, working only through screens. However, learning also involves meeting the other. These young people already see themselves as a ghost generation and call us for help, but we are content to tell them that they must hold, still hold, and, as in wartime, remain confined, far from the amphis, internships, friends, in their sad co-location, in their room of university city that never seemed so suffocating. They have to stay at the home of their parents, whom they had promised to leave, to fly a little. Youth and students are also forgotten in the Government's vaccination strategy. They are at the end of a very long chain, facing a distant horizon. The Government's latest announcements are not to reassure us. The idea of a health pass or a vaccination passport is beginning to emerge. If it were to materialize, it would inflict a double or even triple sentence on young people: without vaccines, they would for a long time be deprived of the freedom to live. Young people and students must no longer be what the Minister of Solidarity and Health calls "the negative externality of the consequences of the decisions that are taken" – I personally prefer to speak of "collateral damage". Placing students at the end of the chain would be a serious mistake if the vaccine passport were put in place. This would be less understandable since only 25% of the doses of AstraZeneca vaccine were used. Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, are you ready, together with the Minister for Solidarity and Health, to review France's vaccination strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u128	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u129	With all the institutions of higher education, the departments of my ministry and I have been mobilised since the beginning of the second confinement to allow universities to ensure a minimum of activity. Thanks to the introduction of robust protocols, all students can now return one day a week to their institution and, thanks to the resumption of the courses and the social link renewed within the promotions, find some hope for this second semester. We could not envisage such a return to institutions for the entire semester without sufficiently robust protocols. We are currently considering enhanced protocols to allow for an increased presence of students, if the health situation permits. With regard to our country's vaccination strategy, the World Health Organization – WHO – and all the experts are formal: vaccination protects serious forms of infection, but it is not yet known whether it can prevent its transmission. Although vaccinated, a person may be infected with the virus: they do not fall seriously ill thanks to the immune response allowed by the vaccine, but they can still transmit the virus. This is at least the state of current knowledge, which still needs to be consolidated. This is why the Government's vaccination strategy prioritizes the doses of vaccine to those exposed to the most serious consequences of the disease, which is not the case for students. As for the vaccine passport, it is not a vaccine passport as you understand it, honourable Member, since there is no question of requiring a vaccine. We are, on the other hand, thinking about a measure allowing a return to normal before the majority of French people are vaccinated. This measure would, of course, affect the entire population, including students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u130	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u131	Out of courtesy and out of republican respect, I will not comment on your answer, Madam Minister. With this new question, I open another chapter, that of student precariousness, which existed before the health crisis. Before the first confinement, 20 per cent of students already lived below the poverty line, and 40 per cent of them depended on at least financial assistance. Prior to the health crisis, students were already seen as a fragile audience. For the past year, small jobs have disappeared: 36% of paid students, i.e. one in three, have lost their jobs. Internships are rarer. Family solidarity is being undermined by the growing precariousness that affects society as a whole. Student insecurity was not caused by the health crisis, we agree, but the crisis has dramatically exacerbated it. Given the scale of the latter, this precariousness will be lasting and could create a true sacrificed generation. The support of local and regional authorities and associations is remarkable, and we welcome it, but we cannot rely entirely on them. The State has also introduced aid. In one year, the CROUS – regional centres for academic and academic works – have provided twice as much emergency aid to students, but this is so little in relation to the issue at stake. The "whatever it costs" seems to have stopped at the door of universities... At the same time, the Government opposed the proposal for a universal income from the age of 18. He was especially opposed to the extension, even provisional, of the RSA for the 18 to 25 year-olds. I want to fight the arguments of those who say that the RSA cannot be a horizon for our young people. The RSA is no horizon for anyone! It's a springboard, a way to go through a difficult stage of life rather than staying there. You are opposed to the youth guarantee, which you want to make universal according to still unclear modalities and timetable – they are not yet fixed – but it will not allow to address the problem of student precariousness. [[Mr. David Corceiro applauds]] So, beyond ad hoc support, what mechanism do you intend to mobilise to respond immediately to the poverty in which students live today, who remain excluded from social emergency schemes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u132	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u133	You are right to say that the precarious student did not start with the crisis of the covid-19 and this phenomenon unfortunately already existed before. It is true, however, that the crisis has exacerbated it, particularly as a result of the disappearance of the small student jobs which have been largely affected; On the other hand, all the measures taken by the Government to preserve jobs had also benefited students, since they had a contract of employment. To address this problem, we ourselves have created new jobs in academic institutions and in the CROUS. More generally, in order to meet the urgent needs expressed by some students, several measures have been taken: first, the possibility for them to have their rights to scholarships instantly reviewed on social criteria, which enable many of them to complete their studies; then the specific aids made available to the CROUS, which have been doubled and are addressed to any student, whether he is a fellow or not, French or foreign – each has the possibility to obtain immediately a aid of 500 euros by decision of the director of CROUS, then to file a file allowing him to receive up to 5000 euros in the course of the academic year. The aim was to respond to the precariousness created by the crisis of the covid-19 and to the needs expressed by the students in the fastest, most immediate and pragmatic way possible. This does not, of course, prevent us from thinking about a recast of social aid for students. The key question that we need to discuss is: do we want to have social assistance in France that allows for the autonomy of each young person, or do we prefer to remain a social model based more on the resources of each family? At the moment, families help young people as much as possible. If they can do so, that is again because the Government has taken steps to support the purchasing power of as many French as possible. It is difficult, of course, but we stand together and do everything we can to ensure that young people make use of the aids we create, because non-recourse is also a major difficulty, which you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u134	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u135	That we gather here to talk about youth and its precariousness illustrates the lack of public policies that have been carried out for decades in France. The precariousness does not result from an exogenous, random, impredictable and sudden element. According to INSEE, 15% of the French population already lived below the poverty line before the crisis of the covid-19. You have just said, Madam Minister, that it has only strengthened existing fractures, particularly among young people, whether they are students or workers. Last January, as you will recall, I had already intervened in the Chamber to alert you to the psychological precariousness in which the young people were. French and European youth suffer greatly; You have to listen to him. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, measure his level of despair? Do you need to see kids tailing in the cold in front of food banks to begin to understand? Do you know what resources our young people have to live in the territories? How is it possible that France will allow such events to take place? Of course, minister, you will deliver a compassionate speech and deploy some anecdotal measures. It must be noted that, from the top of your ivory tower – I would like to ask you a little, please excuse me – you do not want to become aware of the magnitude of the problem. A quarter of our young people said they had given up care, and young people under the age of 30 accounted for more than 50% of the poor in France. How can we explain that despite the EUR 100 billion invested in the recovery plan, a quarter of young people say they do not eat to their hunger? The youth of our country is not an economic weight or a vector of the virus – as you said again – and that is our future. So my question is simple: why do you make such inappropriate decisions?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u136	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u137	Thank you for recognizing that your question was a provocative one. I spent my life with students: believe me, I know how precarious they can be, and I also know their ability to engage, their enthusiasm, and how they plan to study. That is why this year's special situation is also difficult for them: the crisis has, in a way, interrupted their dream share. You're talking about "measles," MP, but I think it's important to observe on the right scale what's been done for all the students. The measures we have taken have always been in agreement with student associations, which know how to prioritize their needs and demands. As I said, there is not a single student today who cannot apply for the specific aids that I mentioned earlier and which are now available; not a single student who does not have access to 1 euro meals in university restaurants, whether he is a scholarship student or not; Not a single student, finally, who has to worry about making money to get care. This last measure already existed before the crisis for all medical care: we have extended it to all psychological care which, as you know, are not reimbursed in the same way. More than 1,000 city psychologists volunteered; We will obviously fund them so that every student can have access to these aids everywhere, wherever he is. I meet the students and the associations that represent them several times a week, therefore on a very regular basis; I can tell you that the measures taken are those they ask for and that they are pragmatic and effective. I am proud that the Government has supported them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u138	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u139	First of all, I welcome the fact that the Freedom and Territory Group is at the origin of a parliamentary debate on the impact of health measures on our youth. Youth is the jewel of a nation; We are obviously damaging ours – I will try to be less provocative than my colleague Martine Wonner, but I am afraid to stay at his level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u140	[[Smile]] He's gonna like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u141	First of all, I want to say a word from the students. The health crisis has made their lives very difficult: their precariousness has increased because they are often unable to work in parallel to finance their studies and maintain a decent standard of living, making it almost impossible to choose the autonomy you have just opposed, Madam Minister, to the support of the family. The isolation of students has increased daily, and their ill-being affects their mental health. Contrary to what some recent announcements may have suggested, rather than a "Psych check," what students need is to go back to school and get a social life back. It then seems to me fundamental to raise the issue of wearing the mask by children from the age of six. Children's psychologists and child psychologists with whom I spoke alert about his dangers at such a young age. A child acts spontaneously and impulsively to understand the world and develop its psychomotor faculties; And the wearing of the mask hinders this natural behavior because it induces an incomprehensible ban for toddlers. In addition, seeing masked adults all day creates a somewhat degraded relationship to the world, you will agree. Children need to see faces to read and understand emotions, not to mention reading learning and all stages of their construction. For children under three years of age, seeing masked adults all day can also affect the development of language, and I know what I'm talking about. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] The Freedom and Territory Group therefore asked the Government to consider adapting the rules governing the wearing of the mask on a case-by-case basis. As Jacques Chirac said, "Change is the law of human life, we must not be afraid of it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u142	Oh, if it's Jacques Chirac then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u143	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u144	To begin with, I believe it is necessary to recall that students are obviously the treasure of our nation. They need both economic solutions that can respond to their precariousness, but also psychological support, and we must not stigmatize the part of our youth that needs this psychological accompaniment, for which Minister Frédérique Vidal has set up the "Psych check". You also evoke the wearing of the mask. The most important thing – I think we can agree on this – is that children can continue to learn and that life continues by adapting. With Jean-Michel Blanquer, we have adapted the protocols according to the evolution of the pandemic, in order to allow our schools to remain open while ensuring the protection of children and of course of teachers. The main thing is educational continuity, and it is in order to guarantee it that we have changed the protocols, in consultation with the High Council for Public Health. So yes, since November 2, the wearing of the mask is mandatory from CP. But the children, including the smallest of them, have integrated the barrier gestures; I visit them every week and I observe that they have acquired the reflex of coughing in their elbows and wearing the mask. The only reasons for not wearing a mask are medical contraindications certified by a certificate. In any case, all the measures that allow us to protect the school – wearing the mask, ventilation, distance – remain our only weapons to keep it open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u145	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u146	From the beginning of the epidemic, the GDR Group has placed youth at the centre of its concerns, as evidenced by the commission of inquiry set up to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people, whose rapporteur, Mr Marie-George Buffet, has produced about 100 targeted and operational proposals. We would like to ask you about two of them, proposals 21 and 22. The disruption of the school calendar and the closure of all schools from kindergarten to high school during the confinement of March 2020 have left traces, and it is feared that the delays accumulated by many pupils cannot be overcome by the current year, itself chaotic because of the closure of classes or even schools, the absence of teachers, the isolation of pupils affected by the covid-19 and the fluctuating rules of presence in high schools. The Minister of National Education is endeavouring to draw up, after a speech, a state of affairs, from which it appears, according to the impression, that the delay in learning and the phenomena of dropping out is not very important, and that teaching in presence and at a distance is worthwhile. This may have been akin to a collective persuasion exercise, but the Government has, at the same time, announced a plan for the closure of classes and the reduction of hourly allowances in colleges and high schools. It is therefore necessary to recall the reality: there is a gap in learning, as well as a significant decrease in the performance of pupils in evaluations, particularly in primary education; In addition, there is a widening of inequalities between children but also between schools in the priority education sector and others. The reality of school drop-out, largely correlated with territorial disparities, has reached peaks – up to 25% – in the overseas regions. Our priority is to prevent the crisis from having an impact on the future of children and young people. That is why we are asking you about the creation of a national school drop-out observatory, an indispensable tool to prevent this scourge. Similarly, do you intend to respond to the demand expressed repeatedly by all actors for the programmes to be adapted, especially in the classes under examination?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u148	The fight against school drop-out is of course a priority issue, especially in a period of health crisis, which we know increases inequalities and affects the most fragile of us. This struggle is absolutely necessary in the period we are living, for the stalling is paid for by a descent into the precariousness that one then undergoes all his life. That's why, with Jean-Michel Blanquer, we are working hard to combat all drop-out situations. We are, of course, doing so through the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1, which we have already begun for a while and which is intended to strengthen essential learning. In addition, as illustrated by the excellent report of the Committee of Inquiry which you mentioned, the effects of the crisis are monitored by evaluations which are less bad than could have been imagined, thanks to the tremendous mobilisation of the teaching teams. Beyond that, we are working with the National Institute of Youth and People's Education – INJEP – to support students more than ever and to fight against this drop-out that socially condemns our children and young people. The law for a school of trust includes new measures such as compulsory education between the ages of 16 and 18, so as not to leave any young person without a solution at this critical age. In the necessary fight against drop-out, the responses may vary from one territory to another, resulting in an intensification of the deployment of second chance schools, contractualised pathways to employment and autonomy – CAPEA –, investment plans in skills – ICP –, and institutions for integration into employment – EPIDE. The most important thing is to assess the impact of this crisis on children's learning in order to cope with it. For older people, between the ages of 16 and 18, we can rely on the new obligations imposed by law for a school of trust, creating much more personalized paths on each of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u149	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u150	Yesterday I was in Bondy, with my colleague Alain Ramadier here, alongside hundreds of young people and educators who paid tribute to the young Aymen, 15 years old, loosely murdered in front of a neighborhood house in the city. All of us described a youth in psychological distress and said how the absence of sports and cultural activities exacerbates their suffering and difficulties. Young people are true coconut-minutes, some have explained. The situation in Seine-Saint-Denis has been worrying us for a long time, as evidenced by the report entitled "La République en fail" which we had written with our colleague François Cornut-Gentille, but it worsens with the crisis of the covid-19. In her report, Marie-George Buffet describes in particular the absolutely dramatic state in which school medicine and psychological accompaniment are currently found at school. After the 15 per cent decrease in the number of school doctors since 2013, there is currently only one doctor for some 13,000 students, and the positions still need to be filled. In the Seine-Saint-Denis department, half of the theoretical positions are not filled by doctors. Needless to say, in my department, as in many others, there are no school doctors. In most cases, there are also no full-time school nurses. There are fewer and fewer social workers and psychological follow-ups. What was worrying has become dramatic since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19. In the light of this crisis and the glaring shortcomings it reveals, are you going to start a job to restore a school medicine worthy of that name in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u151	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u152	Mr President, you began by reminding us of the bubbling state of some of our youth. We were together last Monday, when the President of the Republic moved to Stains, where we saw a youth who had the chance to find a way. This chance, we must give it to all young people. You also talked about the need for these young people to return to normal life, the ties built in sport and the community world, the feeling of being useful. It is also that which counts: to find the necessary links to the social beings that we are. Together with associations and teachers, we work to meet these needs. However, your question is more specifically focused on the lack of doctors and school nurses. During the Grenelle de l'éducation, impulsed by Jean-Michel Blanquer, we worked on various subjects, the first of which directly answers your question: the strengthening of the attractiveness of trades, in particular of school medicine. At a time when it is necessary to perform salivary tests at school and accompany the children to wear the mask, these professions are even more highlighted. Together with the Minister, we are working hard to recruit as many doctors and school nurses as possible to support the teaching teams. We all need our children to grow up, and school remains the best way to emancipate ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u153	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u154	This very morning, the press echoed a call from dozens of personalities, the least we can say of which is that they are neither left nor left, judge yourself: Muriel Pénicaud, who triggered the curia on unemployment benefits; lieutenants from MEDEF and CAC 40, who fired in turn and multiplied short contracts; the voice of liberal circles, which constantly denounce the cost of labour and social contributions. After a state of affairs in the form of a red alert on the situation of the 18-25 year olds, they call for general states that are entitled to a real Marshall plan for youth. This rostrum is questioning us. I pass on the fact that the actions undertaken under the plan "1 young person 1 solution", quoted in the press, are not judged to the extent of the situation to come for the 18-24 year olds. More worrying is the assumption of this forum: in view of this crisis, the adults of yesterday and today would have a considerable debt to young people. This assumption deepens the division between generations, without any link being made between the political choices made and the situation of young people. Are you ready to raise solidarity with this generation from a significant point of view, without continuing to marry the liberal recipes that are underlying – not so-called – in this forum and that I ask you to denounce, that is, punctures on pensions and wages of adult assets in order to continue to tinker with the future of young people between the ages of 18 and 25?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u155	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u156	Like you, I have read this rostrum, but I do not interpret it in the same way. For me, she says that the momentum and commitment must be collective and general towards our youth, which is our treasure. As for the list of signatories, I find it very diverse, as it brings together business leaders, actors, historians and many others. From this rostrum, I note that we all, each and every one of us, must contribute to this effort for youth, because it is our future. The crisis has had many and varied consequences for young people. Some have been affected economically, sometimes to the point of becoming precarious; others have been affected psychologically, have lost their momentum; Others describe social malaise. Through the "1 young 1 solution" plan, the state provides €7 billion to promote social and economic integration. It finances jobs, recruitments, but it also allows us to chart paths of engagement by adapting civic services for part of our youth. Under the aegis of Frédérique Vidal, he also helps another part of our youth, the students. The aim is to enable the most vulnerable of them to return to university, to receive scholarships and to receive help from an emergency fund. From this rostrum, I finally note that we must act collectively, each in its role and according to its mission, to respond to the challenges and consequences of this crisis. I see it as a call for momentum, I hear a call for collective mobilization, because I believe that a virtuous ecosystem, that is, in which everyone brings their stone, will enable us to live up to these challenges and our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u157	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u158	She addressed Mr. Jean-Michel Blanquer. At this particularly troubled time, school and college represent the framework for safeguarding the balance of children and adolescents. They find at the side of their master, their teachers, the springs of curiosity, discovery and even pleasure, let's say, peculiar to the learnings of the disciplines taught. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to sports and the arts, which are particularly affected by containment measures. They should be given special attention in future school periods. Some schools, including schools and colleges for students from modest families, have dance, theatre, football and other sections. In my constituency, Camille-Claudel College has a sports-studies section in hockey whose sixth grade is threatened with closure. However, these schemes have proved their worth, both as a channel of excellence and as a crucible of social mixe, since schools school students beyond their school cards. We call for a moratorium on class closures at the start of the school year, but we particularly ask you to make a firm commitment to safeguard these cultural and sports channels, which will take on an even greater role for children and adolescents in the aftermath of the health crisis, by allowing them to pursue or reconnect with artistic or sporting practices. You will measure with me how important this is also for local associations and clubs, who live through these activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u159	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u160	I fully agree with you, honourable Member: sport and culture are necessary for all children, regardless of where they live. In addition to formal education, there is informal learning in classes where children learn arbitration or theatre, in associations where they practice dance or music. They learn and discover in these places, especially when their family could not accompany them in this kind of learning at home. The Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport supports this vision, which combines formal and informal education. We are investing more than ever so that children can, out of school time, open up to the culture and opportunities it offers. That is why, as of last summer, we launched with Jean-Michel Blanquer this adventure of "learning holidays". A million children needed air, to go to a holiday camp, to learn, to breathe, to get out of their house or apartment. It is more necessary than ever to combine popular education with school education, so that every child in our country can find a way out of basic learning – reading, writing and counting. Mr President, you will always find us at your side to defend this complementarity between sport, the community and school. My colleague Roxana Maracinanu and I are opening up these school times, to multiply these classes and ensure that the associations bring what they know best inside the schools. There must be no more young people who don't know what to do on Wednesday afternoon or Saturday. We need to bring together culture and sport that empower them to better manage in life. Mr President, we will be with you in this fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u161	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u162	The "1 young 1 solution" scheme is ambitious, but the effects of the crisis on young people are such that we should perhaps reinforce the existing responses. Would it not be possible, for example, to open access to EPIDEs to minors identified as dropouts? In Brittany, the only EPIDE is located in Lanrodec, a municipality in my constituency. It welcomes 120 young people and its capacity will soon be increased to 150 places. Recall that the primary mission of an EPIDE is to enable young people who are furthest removed from employment to enter a positive dynamic of integration, and to lead them to build their place in a sustainable way in the world of work and in society. I have already had the opportunity to formulate this recommendation, co-signed by seventy members of the majority, to the Prime Minister last summer. There are now 16 and 17 year olds who express the desire to integrate this second chance school on a voluntary basis. However, the regulation of these establishments does not allow a positive response to what is to be interpreted as a request for accompaniment on their part. This situation therefore deserves to be reviewed. Access to EPIDEs could be supported by the experimental scheme of the universal national service – SNU – which allows, during the cohesion stay – which aims to recall the values of commitment in the service of the general interest and to explain what "do nation", what the Republic is and how to address the challenges of living together – to identify potential young dropouts. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The UNS provides an opportunity to identify vulnerable young people who are dropping out, in order to better accompany them. Therefore, it would be sufficient for you to take the initiative with EPIDEs: according to my information, there is no need to legislate, the lowering of the age of access to these institutions is a simple statutory change since, on the one hand, it is the voluntary contract for integration which provides for their access from the age of 16, and, on the other hand, the civic service contract does not object. Therefore, I would have liked to know how you planned to take over this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u163	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u164	You know how much I care about this beautiful device that EPIDE is because it is a necessary path, allowing young dropouts to find a framework and a path that corresponds to them. As I believe in these institutions that I know well, we have proposed an increase in their budget, which was voted by the National Assembly. This is a sign of confidence, which shows that they have a future, especially since the law for a school of trust provides for the obligation of training between the ages of 16 and 18. Today, there is a need to strengthen the evaluation of this system, which represents an opportunity for dropouts. Already, Brittany and, more specifically, Brest, Morlaix, Lorient and Rennes, will host four villages of the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training (AFPA), which will accompany the first promotions of 16-18 year old dropouts in a specific framework. This project, developed by Jean-Michel Blanquer and Élisabeth Borne, will allow every young dropout to find a new path. Today, the issue of accommodation is one of the obstacles to the opening of EPIDEs to younger people. It is currently the subject of an expert review, after which the necessary developments will be proposed. Indeed, the UNS offers an opportunity to identify young people who drop out, when it occurs between the ages of 15 and 17. The sooner we get there, the sooner we guarantee them social inclusion and, consequently, success and a place in society, the more we owe each of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u165	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u166	I would like to take advantage of this debate so that we stop a little bit at one of the main vectors for the successful integration of young people into the professional world: learning. In 2020, despite the collapse of growth due to the health crisis, 500,000 young people entered apprenticeships. This figure has never been achieved in the past, even though it represented an objective almost thirty years ago in the five-year law on labour, employment and vocational training of the Balladur government, twenty years ago for Minister Dutreil, ten years ago in the social cohesion plan of Minister Borloo and closer to us, for President Hollande. Recent legislative and regulatory developments, the simplifications introduced by the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, and the exceptional aids decided in 2020 have clearly been powerful levers to achieve this very good result. On the other hand, the greatly enhanced image of learning is the result of the mobilization of many professional branches, communities, businesses, universities and large schools that, alongside the state, have been able to value it in the territories. People who engage in this process often find a good rate of integration, a particular maturity, and often even a development and confidence in the future. My question is twofold, and echoes the concerns of the learning players, first and foremost small businesses. First, the exceptional aid of up to EUR 8000 in the first year of the contract is coming to an end, to be replaced by the single alternation aid which prevailed in 2019. Shouldn't this exceptional aid be extended, even though certain sectors, such as hotel-restoration, a key learning sector, still have no visibility on the conditions for recovery? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, the single aid under ordinary law is not open to higher education courses, in particular licences and master's degrees. Apprenticeship also provides students with the opportunity to finance their studies, particularly in large schools and universities. Is it not in the best interest to make higher education permanently eligible for apprenticeship aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u167	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u168	You are right, honourable Member, the focus on learning is essential in order to highlight it. For a very long time, it has not been understood how excellent learning is because it is very demanding and requires both the ability of young people to learn concepts, academic theories, and the ability to understand and get involved in the business world. This shared vision, supported both by companies and by higher education, has shown that we can be apprentices and engineers, continuing their studies until the master's degree. Thus, the perception of learning has improved, particularly among families. Thanks to our joint work, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I, it is possible to move towards apprenticeship training without prejudging the time when one will stop his studies, to start a apprenticeship training in the secondary school that will be completed in the superior. Although aid has indeed been important, we are looking at the Minister for Labour, Integration and Employment and myself, how we can continue to maintain and amplify it. We have already extended until 31 March the possibility of concluding contracts which allow us to benefit from the aid you mentioned, up to 5000 euros for minors and up to 8000 euros for those over 18 years of age. We pay particular attention to this, particularly with regard to the sectors that you have mentioned, which will need young people going through learning in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u169	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u170	Young people tell us again: society, the media, adults in general convey a negative and pessimistic image of their generation. Joshua, 20, tells us: "To speak of a sacrificed generation, of a loss of confidence, is already to have lost. The situation is the same for everyone and everywhere, so it's better to stick together and see the future than to bury yourself before you even try. » Today, young people are under pressure, very strongly hit in their daily lives and very lucid about the difficulties but, at the same time, ready to bounce. A majority of them believe in their future despite the obstacles, they are neither sacrificed nor in conflict of generations. All the speakers interviewed in the committee of inquiry said that we have come out of thirty years of policies that are too deaf to young people. It was during these decades that impoverishment, despair and non-use of rights increased. Today, as the Government mobilizes a colossal budget of almost €7 billion in its "1 young1 solution" plan to respond very concretely to the crisis, young people are the most numerous in our society not to resort to their rights, since only one in two asserts them. For a long time – long before the crisis – they have been discouraged by the complexity of the administration and the dispersal of the devices we offer them. Some organizations, such as the Caisse d'allocations familiale or Toulouse's social farm mutuality, are tackling this non-recourse to rights: out of 18500 appointments with its insured persons, the mutuality has just released 8500 aids that had never been affected – almost half – for only 334 that it has abolished because it has been unrecognized. This twists the neck to the poncives, while highlighting the importance of non-use of rights. Minister, can you confirm that the fight against non-use of rights is a priority of the Government? How do you intend to simplify the procedures, the requirements for supporting documents that are often an obstacle? How to improve the visibility of the devices as the information sites of the ministries multiply, among which the platform "La Boussole des jeunes" that your ministry has developed, the site "1 jeune 1 solution" created by the Ministry of Labour, Integration and Employment, or the brand new site of the Ministry of the Interior, dedicated to the plan "10000 jeunes"? Finally, how does the Government intend to put an end to the stacking up of local and national mechanisms, including the creation of a universal income for activity, whose work was to be completed in 2021, as indicated to us by Deputy Minister Brigitte Bourguignon?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u171	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u172	Mrs Sandrine Mörch, I know how committed you are to the issue of non-use of rights, and this is even more important for young people. While in this particular period of crisis, the answers have multiplied, the most important of all, today it is of course that young people find their solution. Today in our country, one in two young people does not know what they can claim. Yes, the fight against non-use of rights is a priority for all members of the Government. So we deployed a first platform, "1 young 1 solution". We also rely on the thousand information centres, which are relays, and we are multiplying the work to make these aids even more accessible. In concrete terms, we are working, Elizabeth Borne and I, on the universal youth guarantee in order to broaden access to it by melting other devices. Indeed, the most important thing is that every young person finds his or her solution, even without knowing the exact name of the device. Our priority, of course, is to combat the non-use of rights, working in partnership with the CROUS but also with local missions. Today it is a matter of bringing together actors and resources in the territories. To do this, the "Youth Compass" scheme will enable answers to be provided on a territory-by-territory basis. On the ground, whenever I talk directly and frankly to young people, whether they are students or not, they talk about the various obstacles they face: access to housing, for which we have implemented the Visale guarantee; the financing of the driving licence, for which we propose the licence to a euro, or mobility. I say again: the most important thing is that they find their solution, and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u173	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u174	The Committee of Inquiry has enabled us to take stock of the articulation of our policies for children and young people. The main interested parties are rarely consulted, a fortiori in this period, during which they feel they are forgotten. The problems that concern the twenty million under 24 years of age in our country are multiple and the existing fractures have been exacerbated during the crisis, in proportions that are not yet accurately measured. Before the crisis, one in five children, or nearly three million, lived below the poverty line, and this number is only increasing. Nearly one million of the 16-25 age group are not in education, employment or training, while one in two young people has lost their jobs since the beginning of the pandemic. While only 2 per cent of young people were affected by isolation in 2010, they are now 13 per cent. This explosion in the number of cases of isolation is all the more alarming given that the share of isolated young people has caught up with that of the rest of the population, which has stabilized at 14%. While the children placed at the hotel in the spring were self-delivered, 23% of the homeless are former children in child welfare – ESA. The lack of prospects and the potential flaws of the Republican promise lead to a growing sense of abandonment among young French people. Aware of this situation, the President of the Republic himself recalled that "equal opportunities are not yet effective in our Republic". In order to combat a form of social determinism, the Government has deployed a large number of measures, such as the "first 1,000 days of the child", the educational cities, the "first young solution" plan or the specific assistance for the priority areas of the city. While they have no political influence or economic influence and healthy development of children is crucial for the future of any society, it is up to us to strengthen access to rights for children under 25 years of age and to respect France's commitments in terms of equal opportunities, as enshrined in the sustainable development goal – SDG – No. 10 of the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations. So, Madam Minister and the Secretary of State, here is my question: how do you envisage making our equal opportunities policy more readable, restoring the confidence of young people and making them actors in their future today?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u175	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u176	You are right, as early as 2017, we took up the issue of equal opportunities, which, in reality and in a way, is the question of equality of possibilities. That is our republican promise. From the earliest age, from the first 1000 days, we bring answers, as well as by the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1, which you recalled, or by the refusal of the dry exit for the children of ESA, of which we know how fragile they are sometimes. Equal opportunities is not just a plan, it is the subject of an announcement: we provide multiple and complementary answers. A few weeks ago, the President of the Republic announced, together with Amélie de Montchalin and myself, new classes "the talents of the public service", preparatory classes designed to open up access to the public service more widely. Another simple example: the great mentoring and mentoring plan, now funded at the level of 30 million euros, because a young person sometimes needs someone who looks at him, who gives him a boost and gives him confidence. Today, 25,000 mentors accompany young people; We have the ambition to reach 100,000 this year and 200,000 next year. The promise of our country is that of emancipation, through school, through work, through economic and social integration. To do this, you have to walk on two legs: on the one hand, to give access to employment and to the economic world and, on the other, to provide the social and cultural means to combat all precariousness. No one should think that they are condemned to live less well than their parents. The answers, I repeat, are multiple, some cyclical ones like the plan "1 young 1 solution", to which 7 billion euros have been allocated, others much deeper, based on school, learning or higher education. Access to employment is the best way to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u177	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u178	We all note the lucid fact that this crisis that we have been going through for almost a year has hit our young people very hard: unemployment has increased by 16% for this age group. Many, students, young workers or job seekers, are gradually falling into a precarious situation that will rarely have been so worrying. Isolation, drop-out, decline in purchasing power, difficulties in feeding and housing, lack of prospects, psychological distress: our mobilization to counter these phenomena and give hope to our youth must be total. This generation must not be sacrificed. In the face of this situation, the President of the Republic, the Government and our parliamentary majority have taken the lead in helping young people, first of all financially, with the upgrading of scholarships, emergency aid from 150 to 500 euros, a meal at one euro a day, mobility aids or assistance with the installation of 1000 euros. We also help them find a job: the plan "1 young person, 1 solution" has already allowed more than 1 million hires, as much as in previous years over the same period; 500 000 apprenticeship contracts have been concluded. Finally, we help them psychologically thanks not only to the deployment of the "Psych check", but also to the development of mentorship, already mentioned, which will allow young people to feel, we hope, less alone in the face of this crisis. In addition to this national aid, there are many local initiatives that I would like to welcome. But the challenge is also to simplify access to these devices and to limit non-use, as has already been pointed out on several occasions. Too many young people do not receive the help they would be entitled to, for lack of information and quick and easy access. I was able to check it in my constituency of Hauts-de-Seine, Bagneux, Malakoff or Montrouge. I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for coming with me to Malakoff to hear these young people tell us: it is not easy for them to know what they can claim, besides it is difficult to reach out and recognize that we are not doing well. The Prime Minister recently announced a new tool to identify and evaluate these aids. Can you tell us more? How do you intend to facilitate young people's access to these aids?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u179	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u180	We met with about ten young people together, and seven of them could receive an answer, because there were aids, but the young people did not take advantage of these devices because they did not know them. The fight against non-recourse is therefore even more essential for young people. The first step is to consolidate existing solutions, wherever they come from, on a site. On the "1 young person 1 solution" platform, we find internships, jobs, civic service missions, as well as information on the social assistance to which we can claim. But our ambition is to go beyond that. We believe in human accompaniment, necessary to take advantage of these aids. A website is an interesting tool, but we also announced this Monday that it would be accompanied by a phone number, which will allow the young person to have an interlocutor to explain his situation. This, of course, is in addition to the Youth Information Network that we are reviewing to make it even closer, more direct, more accessible. Our responsibility is also to simplify these devices, so that each young person finds much more directly and much more easily the solution he needs. This is the development proposed, in particular, by the universal youth guarantee which, by definition, will affect many more young people. In the same spirit, we also believe much in tutors and mentors: self-censorship exists, even beyond the lack of information. To break the glass ceiling, nothing replaces a confident look, that tells, that shares hope, that gives momentum. That's why we're aiming to reach 100,000 mentors this year, and 200,000 as of next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u181	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u182	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the difficulties that students face in their search for compulsory internships to validate their diploma. Because of the economic crisis, the lack of prospects and the new arrangements for organising work, many companies are hindering their recruitment of trainees. Unfortunately, they suffer from the direct consequences of the crisis: from internship offers to the dropper, and a very low gratification. The Ministry of Higher Education has authorized a postponement of probationary periods of up to six months: the dates of support and graduation are staggered, which may also penalize students who wish to continue their studies. Your "1 young person 1 solution" plan does not include any incentives for internships, bonuses or exceptional assistance in this area. As for the development of networking platforms, this cannot be the only response of the Government, which must provide an effective and lasting solution to encourage the provision of internships and the integration of young people into working life. If, beyond two months of internship, companies are obliged to pay a gratuity, the minimum amount of 546 euros gross remains too low and allows students to live decently as with the crisis, they have lost their little extra job. They then experience precariousness and even poverty. While the Government has put in place a learning stimulus plan to encourage companies to continue training young people in difficult times, there is no provision for trainees. In order to encourage them to offer internships, a significant tax solution must be submitted to companies, as has been done for apprenticeship contracts. Indeed, the aid covering 80% to 100% of an apprentice's salary, depending on his age, the rest for the company is low. Why not offer such assistance for internships, which would allow both the number of internships offered to be revived and the interns' gratuity to be significantly increased? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What incentives, especially tax incentives, do you intend to provide to support companies in their recruitment of trainees? How to increase the minimum gratuity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u183	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u184	I have recently made several trips on this issue of internships, including one with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration Elizabeth Borne in Bordeaux. We met with participants from the university, the Confederation of Small and Medium Enterprises (CPME), the representatives of the communities that, together, had set up a platform. No one told us that the difficulty came from the remuneration of the internships, but I hear your comment. However, you can imagine that in view of all the support we have provided to promote employment and learning, the main question is not: the question is rather that of bringing young people into contact with companies which are mostly teleworking. That's what we were told in Bordeaux. In the same way, the University of Strasbourg has signed a partnership with the local MEDEF, also because, since companies are teleworking, young people do not know who to contact to obtain internships. There, too, the companies did not mention a need for financial aid: they told us about linking up. It is still the same at the University of Poitiers, which has opened a platform with the participation of local communities and the local socio-economic world, or in certain regions that have seized on this subject, such as the Centre-Val-de-Loire region, which uses the CNOUS Jobaviz platform – the National Centre for Academic and School Works – and encourages the socio-economic world to submit its internship proposals. Since telework is still the rule, interesting proposals have been made: to bring young people one day a week in advance of their internship, for example, so that they can meet their future tutor and possibly carry out their internship in telework. As you can see, true solidarity has developed between the state, communities, the business world and higher education institutions. Here again, we'll make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u185	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u186	The economic and social consequences of the health crisis are indeed terrible for young people, students or not. Our young people were already struggling to find their place in the world of work, with an unemployment rate of over 22%. Young people need a horizon, a future, which requires work, activity. You mentioned the dropouts, as well as the enormous mental difficulties students face, which are growing. I do not go back to everything that has been said, even if your answers are far from satisfying me. I note that our assembly, within the framework of the commission of inquiry, has worked to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth in an attempt to mobilize the Government: for the time being, the response remains meagre. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, you need to think quickly about how to allow associative life to resume. Cultural, sports and other associations are ready to meet the many expectations of young people who want to practice arts and music: today they are hindered, to their detriment but, above all, to the detriment of young people. Young people, who are lonely, despair. My second comment will follow on from my colleague Sandra Boëlle's comment on the internships. In a crisis situation – we've been going through one for a year –, crisis response! As you said, access to employment is the best solution against any form of poverty, and that must be our first concern. What do you think of a very concrete measure, which would be to create 300,000 jobs for young people in difficulty today, on the model of partial activity? We do it for the employees, why wouldn't the state do it for the young? Why not imagine contracts, one-off, specifically for associations that would employ young people? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, contracts for enterprises could provide for a total absence of charges for six months, so that companies have to pay only the net wage. In my view, it would be a vacuum cleaner for young people, who need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u187	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u188	I know how committed you are to associative life issues. Yes, we are all looking forward to a return to life for our associations, whether they re-animate our territories, whether they offer music, dance or sports classes again. But today we are living a reality: that of the health crisis. More than ever, we work with associations. I meet them every week to adapt the protocols. Last summer, we managed to mobilize them for the "learning holiday" operation, which first welcomed those who needed it most, children, young people: it was, I believe, if not a victory, at least a great hope offered to all. Similarly, as soon as we were able to reopen the sports practice, we reopened it, for minors, first, and then more broadly. Every week, we work not to let young people sink into fatigue or fatigue. As soon as this is possible, the world of associations will take up its full place. You have proposed the creation of 300,000 jobs; There is no reason to evade any proposal but, in reality, 600,000 jobs are subsidized and accompanied that we are putting in place as part of the "1 young 1 solution" plan. They bear several names, including PIC or PACEA. These 600,000 jobs complement 245,000 civic service missions. What's the message? It is simple: you absolutely must not give up, you must create the opportunity. These jobs complement the 20,000 jobs of tutors and mentors created within the university. Yes, it is through employment that we will overcome this crisis and prevent young people from falling permanently into poverty. Of the 300,000 jobs you offer, a number already exist. If it is necessary to create more, we will do so, because our priority is to accompany young people and to maintain a dynamic and living associative world so that, when we can resume a normal life, it has enough energy to breathe life back into our territory, for that is how we love it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u189	We turn to questions from the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u190	In my department, La Mayenne, there are many articles in the press about students' difficulties in finding a company to do their internship. However, the completion of an internship depends on the completion of their diploma. Some cases, among others mentioned: State diploma in social and family economics, technical marketing DUT, professional degree with specific audiences. Students report very many letters sent, without result, as the deadline for obtaining an internship ends: it is necessarily a source of anxiety for them. They also use the regional platform to choose.fr, but unfortunately it does not always meet their expectations. As far as learning is concerned, it is not easy, either, to find a place in the hotel-restaurant. Broken dreams multiply, even if companies mobilize as best they can to meet demands. Some students who are supposed to be on alternance or apprenticeship are in fact deprived of remuneration, as well as of scholarships and specific assistance. The changeover to initial training, which is possible, results in tuition fees but does not address the problem of internship, which conditions the maintenance of the return-to-employment allowance. The internships and orals were cancelled for the BTS, which is quite understandable from the context. The young people concerned, however, express their concern about the possible devaluation of the diploma, let us say, lightened, which they will obtain. The students of IUT, engineering schools and the Faculty of Law from Vallois express their great satisfaction at the generalised euro meal scheme on 25 January. In addition, the establishment of a solidarity grocery store at the initiative of local authorities was highly appreciated. However, what answer can you give young people to the question of internships that are impossible to find?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u191	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u192	The concern you express on the part of the students, we have decided to take it at arm-to-body in several ways. First of all, as you recalled, a departmental circular found other forms of support for graduation and, whenever necessary, staggered probationary periods. This arrangement was very effective last year when the confinement, very strict, coincided with the period of the internships: by allowing the students, without having to re-register for another year, to validate their internship until 31 December, it solved the vast majority of the problems. Where the internship was not possible, reports were submitted. You're talking about the students' fear of their diploma being devalued, but the companies tell me that everyone knows that we've been through an exceptional year. They are fully aware that sometimes students will not have been able to carry out a practical internship. A form of national solidarity must be mobilised, and companies are ready to do so. Allowing internships until 31 December also means giving students the opportunity to do their internships after the normal date of graduation, and thus to give companies, who absolutely need to verify that young people are able to carry out the tasks entrusted to them, the opportunity to retain these trainees until 31 December. The second mechanism, which I have already mentioned, is working on establishment by institution, locality by locality, to mobilize the offers of internships. Whether it is the big groups or the SMEs, everyone is working on it, and I have no doubt that we will find the 900000 internships needed for the diplomas of all the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u193	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u194	Young people pay a heavy toll on the pandemic. In addition to confinements and curfew observance, mostly distancical courses accentuate isolation at an age when the social bond, in its most diverse forms, is essential to personal and professional construction. Some young people have been away from their homes for months. Others lost the work that allowed them to finance their studies and live on a daily basis. It is in a difficult economic context that 750,000 young people have entered the labour market and are struggling to find a first job. Aware of these difficulties, the Government has put in place, within the framework of the recovery plan, concrete measures coordinated by the "1 young person 1 solution" plan, focusing on the support and integration of young people, including the creation of the youth guarantee for those who are in a very precarious situation. At present, these schemes offer a monthly allowance of up to EUR 500 and intensive support for one year for young people between 16 and 25 years of age who are not in employment, education or training but are in a precarious situation. Is it not time to extend this guarantee to all young people by transforming it into a universal right and by removing the conditions of resources and the criterion "without employment, education or training"? Young people are long-term and hard hit by the health, economic and social crisis: for some, as we know, it will determine their professional careers and their life course in a sustainable way. Young people must feel the nation's solidarity with them. Where else would the promise of the Republican pact be? At the beginning of a working life, this universal right to support and integration would strengthen the confidence that young people can have in our country and, more broadly, in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u195	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u196	Yes, today we need a momentum, a response that will strengthen the bond of trust between youth and our social model through the social pact. By way of illustration, if we compare the impact of the crisis on youth unemployment, we note that the latter is less serious than we imagined, because it was amortized by the massive commitment of the Government through the "1 young 1 solution" plan that you mentioned, which represents an investment of 7 billion euros. During the 2008-2009 crisis, youth unemployment had exploded, exceeding the 30 per cent mark in relation to structural unemployment: for this crisis, the figures, which are not yet fully consolidated, are around 9 per cent. Unemployment has therefore been contained, even if it is 9% too much. This is the result of the creation of 1.2 million jobs thanks to massive financial support. The bottom of your question is: how can the universal youth guarantee become truly universal? How can we move from a system to a youth right? As early as November, I myself referred the matter to the Youth Policy Guidelines Council, because I believe that a right such as this should be written and constructed with them. It is the youth movements themselves that have given us a report, to Elizabeth Borne and myself, to improve the scheme and move towards the universal youth guarantee. The report contains several recommendations that we are evaluating and some of which are already being implemented. For example, a few weeks ago, Élisabeth Borne and I expanded the possibility of not taking parents' tax income into account in order to promote youth autonomy. You're asking: how to get to the end of the process? We are currently making the scheme more flexible and wider, as we have confidence in individualised support. The youth guarantee could accompany a young person over 12 months: it can now do so up to 18 months. All efforts towards the real universality of the youth guarantee are welcome, and work is already under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u197	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u198	For the past year, the health crisis has upset the lives of students and plunged some of them into a great psychological and material distress that the report of the commission of inquiry shed light on. Long hidden, because hidden by access to student jobs, student precariousness is not a new reality, but it has been amplified by the health crisis. Deprived of their jobs, some students have come to the ranks of the beneficiaries of aid associations for the poorest. Ten days ago, I participated in a student food distribution organized by the Copain association that carries out admirable work, to help young people affected by precariousness. His president explained to me that he wanted to decriminalize access to aid, because it appears that a large part of the students feel that they do not deserve it – they still need to be informed of its existence. Many initiatives have been taken by the Government: the plan "1 young person 1 solution" – and soon, "1 young person 1 mentor" – the numerous efforts to promote learning, the proliferation of civic services or the extension of the youth guarantee. Nevertheless, support measures for students need to be stepped up. The issue of youth concerns us all. I refuse to hear, in the Chamber or elsewhere, the sentence "sacred generation" resonate as a fatality. At such an important stage in the construction of their lives, our support must be unwavering. Listening must be the watchword to address this important issue. Every life counts and every story must be heard: we must be able to listen to the concerns of high school students, students, unemployed young people and active young people, in order to provide the most appropriate answers to each situation. Minister, the aids are here. Can you tell us how many young people benefit from it and what major measures you plan to take to combat the precariousness of students and the lasting effects of such a crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u199	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u200	You are right to welcome the commitment and work of the associations. Of course, as Minister of Higher Education, I will focus on student associations. By and for students: that's their motto, and my ministry supports them financially, especially through objective contracts. Beyond student associations, we also fund all associations designed to provide special assistance to students. I am thinking, for example, of the Nightline association, which provides them with answers, support and accompaniment, including until the early hours of the morning. If supporting these associations is important, the most difficult, you are right, is the issue of visibility. To improve it, we are already in the process of identifying all existing aid. You have no idea how complex they are! State aid is quite simple, since we control it: 750,000 students out of the 2.7 million students in our country are supported through social grants, and 45,000 students have already benefited from specific aid and emergency aid. Our goal is to help and support up to 100,000 students: funding is provided for this purpose and, if we need to do more, we will. The real question is how to put the student at the center of the system. The pipes can be complicated, but everything has to be simple for him. At the moment, however, it is simple for each of the structures and very complicated for the young person: hence the idea of carrying out work around the universal income of activity, of a global autonomy aid for students, which overlaps state aid, community aid and regional aid. Once again, the priority is simplicity for the young person, in order to avoid non-use, and to make the complexity absorbed by the structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u201	We turn to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u202	For almost a year, France has suffered from a health crisis and its economic and social repercussions: one year that poverty is increasing in France and threatens our most modest citizens every day a little more; One year that alerts are increasing and proposals are being pushed to seek effective solutions to the precarious situation of young people; One year that we are confronted with a government that is deaf ears. While the queues lie in front of the food banks, and young people half-declare that they would be prepared to make the garbage to feed themselves if they did not exist, the Government does not propose any appropriate measures to help them. While students suffer from the closure of universities and the resulting lack of social interaction, the loss of their student jobs, financial difficulties and despair of not being heard, the Government, including the Ministry of Higher Education, prefers to engage in the hunt for the witches of Islamogauchism. While young people are struggling to enter and remain in the labour market, the Government is knitting illusory solutions that do not address the problem of youth integration. Between the weakening of training and learning opportunities and tax measures that deplete children under 25, your decisions have led to this alarming situation. While in April 2020 I proposed the introduction of food vouchers for students and apprentice fellows, it took nine months for the Government to consider offering one-euro meals for students. On the other hand, it would have taken only two months for a rescue plan for large companies to be launched: these deadlines reveal the Government's priorities. The situation of the 18-25 year olds is serious, alarming and urgent. It is on all lips and divides into the majority. It is time for the Government to act and stop systematically rejecting its proposals to support young people, whose psychological and material distress has never been so profound.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u203	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u204	[[Joël Aviragnet made a gesture of denial]] Mr Aviragnet, a number of points seem important to me: first of all, universities did not close in the course of the academic year 2020-2021. Ask students if the opening of UBs – university libraries – and working rooms has not been important to them! Secondly, I know that you proposed the creation of food vouchers last spring, but I also know that universities received funding to distribute them as early as March. More than €20 million has been made available for these, as well as for computer purchases and 4G key loans. So don't think that universities have done nothing and never forget that they are state operators. Whenever they themselves, the CROUS or other public higher education institutions act, it is of course with the funds of the State. You're talking about a fall in learning. Well, no, there's never been so many apprentices. You say that we waited nine months to set up a euro meal, forgetting that it was available at the beginning of September 2020. You say that Agoraés and other social and solidarity grocery stores took time to open. But these have been in existence for more than ten years and we have of course increased their subsidies this year. Universities are, of course, accessible today to students who wish to return: 60% of them have been present one day a week for several weeks, and we continue to work with institutions to accommodate more students, so that they can return to normal life. Students do not need to be caricatured or treated with compassion: they need solutions. They found them with their institutions, their CROUS and thus with the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u205	That's not what they say, you should meet them more often!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u206	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u207	I would like to return to the long-term consequences of this crisis on young children. If, as Mr Marie-George Buffet's very comprehensive report points out, the first confinement could have a positive effect at first, the prolonged measures following the return of the youngest to school, to the crèche, or to everyday life will have an effect on their cognitive and social development. If the under 6s do not wear masks, they evolve in an environment where adults are masked. Several researchers who work on the effects of wearing the mask on the youngest say: "It turns out that young children don't just listen to the language, they also look at it. According to them, the mask already has an impact on learning. By reducing the quality of interactions, it would hinder the development of children's language and caring skills, and impoverish their communication, especially for those suffering from previous disorders. Children also grow up in a particularly anxious environment, saturated with injunctions – rules of ubiquitous hygiene, physical distancing, limited interactions. As the report and current studies point out, today's children are more worried and smile less. If all this research is to be continued over a long period of time, we must now look at the collateral effects of the epidemic on children, who are growing up in a very special environment. The inclusive mask must be widely distributed to early childhood workers, as well as to CP and kindergarten teachers – at least in classes where the emphasis is on reading learning. Finally, Madam Minister, what means are being used for early childhood, to limit the effects of this situation in the long term, and to assess the evolution of behaviour? Are you thinking of strengthening education and mental health services?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u208	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u209	You are right, we are living in an extraordinary time, in the first sense of the word, and it is very important that, from now on, research be carried out on its long-term consequences. You understand that the first priority is to live with this pandemic. Above all, we must protect children, staff and the general population. True, some studies show that learning also involves decrypting facial expressions. It is for this reason that it is also difficult to teach from a distance, when you cannot see the students, to capture their eyes. This is an important issue, of which we do not yet know the impact, but studies are being carried out. You also address a second of our priorities, which Agnès Buzyn, then Minister of Health, and I have included in the plan "my health 2022": child psychiatristry. Yes, we lack child psychiatrists in France, because this specialty is no longer attractive enough. To allow for the recruitment of these specialists and more generally psychiatrists, we have opened positions of heads of clinics. We are working to restore the attractiveness of this sector, in full coordination with Olivier Véran. We need to take better care not only of mental health, but also of preventing the risks associated with it: it is a paradigm shift. We live in a country where it is difficult to say that we are going wrong, to ask for help: we must break up with this reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u210	We turn to the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u211	First of all, I would like to welcome the work of the Committee of Inquiry, as well as the quality of the report and the eighty proposals which it has given rise to. Children, youth represent the future, hope for our society, even if the horizon is full of uncertainties. The health crisis has revealed and aggravated the great suffering in which our young people find themselves. We will not be able to debate the policies intended for them if the Government does not speak with them, do not listen to them. I therefore agree with all the proposals in the report, in particular the proposal to establish a delegation to the National Assembly on children's rights and youth. Is the Government ready for it? There is also a need to build more on the rich associative fabric, a real pool of ideas. After many job cuts, is the Government prepared to strengthen this fabric, including through the creation of specific jobs, to meet well-identified needs? Furthermore, in order to improve the intergenerational link and to cope with the ageing of the population, it is necessary, by accompanying them, to encourage young people to train in occupations which guarantee the ageing of the elderly. What does the Government intend to do about it? Overcrowding of housing is also a barrier to the development of young people and children. Do you agree to launch a large housing construction project? In addition, as you know, the situation of young people and children is even more serious than in metropolitan France. I regret, moreover, that the ultramarines were forgotten in the report. How do you intend to integrate our specificities? Will these issues be discussed in the context of the establishment of the delegation to the National Assembly for children's rights and youth?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u212	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u213	Mr Ratenon, you began by stressing the need to strengthen the intergenerational link. Some wanted to make it appear that the crisis had deepened the distance, or even created a break between the generations. That is absolutely not the case. From the first confinement, the young people of France mobilized for our elders. If they have done so in a more or less organized way, actions have taken place, whether they are bringing meals, printing certificates or looking for medicines. Our country is by essence a country of solidarity – it lives, it feels. To strengthen this intergenerational bond and because all the young people we meet mention the same concern, we launched yesterday, my colleague Brigitte Bourguignon and myself, 10,000 intergenerational civic service missions within the framework of the Senior Civic Solidarity Service. Young people in our country really want to accompany their elders, whether they live in EHPADs, or independently at home. They refuse fate, distance between generations. To continue on this path of solidarity, we can rely, within the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, on an interdepartmental delegate to youth, because the issue of youth is cross-cutting, you are right. The government team shows political will in this area and each of its members brings its stone to the building: Frédérique Vidal, with devices intended for all students, Emmanuelle Wargon, with exceptional help to the installation – a payment of 1000 euros for all young people under 25 years of age whose employment is paid less than 1400 euros –, Élisabeth Borne, by stimulating and accompanying access to employment. Youth is everyone's priority. As for the creation of the delegation, the National Assembly is sovereign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u214	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u215	I would also like to commend the work done by my colleagues in the Committee of Inquiry. The report, as has already been pointed out, highlights the dramatic situation of children and youth in our country. The finding, bitter, is widely shared: psychic fragility and socio-economic distress, for young people; unemployment and precariousness, apprehensions and uncertainties about the future, especially for students. On Monday, during my permanence, I met with a student in the first year of law at Paris University 1. As her experience and all the other testimonies show, not everything is so well, minister. Despite a scale 6 grant of 489 euros per month, this young woman, once she has paid the rent for her student residence, has only 50 euros per month for her food purchases and it is difficult for her to benefit from the one-euro meals offered by the Crous de Port-Royal, since her residence is in the suburbs of Paris, and it takes her one hour to get there. The report of the commission of inquiry rightly states that in a society that advocates the individual's success and solitary success, asking for help is sometimes seen as a failure. If 23% of students do not use it, as has already been mentioned, it is for this reason, in addition to administrative complexity. However, the importance of one-off aid should not be underestimated, especially in the present circumstances. The same student confirmed to me that the payment of 150 euros represented a breath of oxygen and regretted that the aid was not permanent. However, it is time for our country to recognize the specific status of students, who are fully involved in the life of our nation, at least in its future. On this subject, proposal No 61 of the report briefly refers to the need for reflection on the means of financial and material autonomy of students. From this perspective, what do you think of student income or an autonomy allowance? Why not implement them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u216	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u217	I also very much appreciated this report and looked at all its recommendations, particularly those concerning students. We are working on this. To accompany all young people, whatever their path, it is necessary to be able to help those who decide to engage in studies. I have always said this and therefore repeat it to you without a problem: we must review our system of grants on social criteria, because families are at the limit but on the wrong side of the thresholds. It is often for the children of these families that things are difficult. You mention the case of a student who has a stage 6 scholarship, but others do not receive a social award. The whole system needs to be rethought: if we are to aim at the autonomy of young people, we must concentrate – this decision must result from broad consultation – on aid to individuals, so we must completely review the system of social assistance in France, which is currently based on the income of parents. For young people and students who are lucky enough to have parents who can help them, the system is perfect, but it is much more complicated for those who are breaking up. How to simplify devices? How can we encourage young people to have an independent tax home? In addition to these basic reflections, we need immediate answers and I advise you to tell this student to inquire about her CROUS. There must be a university restaurant close to his residence; In addition, it can apply for emergency aid, which is not restricted to non-students only but is open to all. We continue to work on the overall help of autonomy that students demand and that would be a real step forward for all students. It should have been introduced years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u218	We turn to the questions of the IDU and independent group. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u219	Young people between the ages of 18 and 29 are 9.2 million in France: more than a third are unemployed, with or without training, in a very difficult situation. The financial problems of young people are not recent, but the situation in recent months has made daily life harder and heavier, sometimes marked by regular food deprivation. In this sense, the protection of young people must be a priority. The Government has put in place many measures since the beginning of the health crisis to solve the specific problems of young people: this investment amounts to almost € 6.7 billion over two years. I have a lot of discussions with young people, local missions, employment centre and departmental services: it seems to me essential to simplify and clarify the conditions for access to the accompanying arrangements, in order to reach all young people without exception. Do you think it possible, Madam Secretary of State, to optimise your youth policy by providing greater human support in local missions, by assisting tutors in civic services, or by providing systematic and differentiated support for young graduates and those furthest from employment? How could information for young people living in rural areas or in small municipalities be improved? This population faces, in addition to other difficulties, problems of mobility and access to the Internet. The municipal level is essential here: how to involve small municipalities in this policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u220	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u221	You are right, there is momentum and answers given depending on the situation and status. For example, students, who were scholarship holders and are unable to find their first job, can receive exceptional assistance from the Employment Centre or APEC – Executive Employment Association. Students and young people who have lost their seasonal jobs receive assistance of 900 euros, because we are in a crisis situation. Isolated young people, who do not receive training and are not students, can find answers from local missions with the youth guarantee. In the face of this multitude of devices, the challenge is to gather all the information in the same place. Local missions, APEC, Pôle Emploi and CROUS provide information and individual support: to increase the effectiveness of these actions, we rely on the 1100 youth information and documentation centres and local elected officials. We seek to increase youth information points through the network of France services houses and elected officials responsible for youth issues. We make these tools available to elected officials, adapting them with them to the specificity of each territory. In any case, the answer cannot only be digital: the human must accompany the digital tool, the network being different from one territory to another. Behind these words are actions: two weeks ago, Élisabeth Borne announced an increase of 140 million euros in the budget of local missions, which now amounts to 500 million euros, to recruit the staff they need. The roadmap is based on two pillars: strengthening human support in the territories through associations and elected representatives and simplifying mechanisms to make them broader and more inclusive. Thus, the young person will not have to wonder where to go because the information will go to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u222	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u223	Just over 2.7 million young people are enrolled in higher education. For some of them, however, the university world remains unknown: some know the student rooms but barely the amphitheatres. You will understand that, of course, I am thinking of new students, but also those who are in the course of study at the university or at a higher school. If these young people show great resilience and are convinced that their generation has the energy to face the great challenges we face, they can, for many reasons, find themselves in psychological and financial difficulties, even though the Government has deployed many mechanisms to help them. They are also concerned about the continuation of their studies. What can we do to restore confidence and reassure them? What can be done to avoid complete drop-out and to help those who feel in great difficulty to understand the courses and acquire the necessary concepts? Some institutions seem overwhelmed by the situation. Universities had to adapt quickly during both confinements by setting up distance education systems almost overnight. Would it not be necessary to strengthen the financial and human resources of the institutions in order to help them safely deploy the arrangements for training and accompaniment of students towards working life? Could we consider developing mechanisms to support the success and support of students and to strengthen alternance and links with companies and all economic, cultural and associative actors in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u224	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u225	You are right, many young people are wondering about the continuation of their studies, but when they return to university, they find the confident look of their teachers that will help them regain their awareness of their ability to overcome the test of distance learning. I would also like to pay tribute to the work done by all the institutions: as soon as the first confinement came out, we prepared for the academic start-up. If we had all hoped that it would take place at university, we had also considered that it would take place at a distance. More than 35 million euros have been released to equip rooms, train and prepare. There has been immense solidarity within universities: teachers-researchers have prepared tutorials to help others use tools and software. This is what we owe to the students and what the teachers have been working on since the students came back. We have financed the presence of 20,000 tutors in universities, in order to support the students and restore their confidence. The latter have experienced difficult times, but they have not let go and have not cracked. The evidence: the rates of attendance and pass on the exams are almost the same as last year's – we analyze the few cases that are beyond the overall assessment and we are in contact with the institutions to remedy these particular situations. The system, the teachers-researchers, the institutions and the students held. Of course, the year has not been like the others, but it will have taught them a lot, especially about the strength they have in themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u226	We turn to the questions of the Action Group. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u227	I would like to associate my colleague Jean-Charles Larsonneur, Member of Parliament for Finistère, who is very committed to youth issues. For the past year, young people have been deprived because of the state of health emergency. It is the paradox of this virus that affects young people less strongly but in fact collateral victims. The economic and social consequences hit them hard. Beyond precariousness, young people experience moral and psychological suffering because they cannot fully live their golden age, a period that is structuring for the rest of life. Culture, sport, nightlife, the joy of meeting with friends, the desire for commitment for the planet and for others are the building blocks of youth. Young people are the living forces of our nation. It is by putting them at the heart of our project, listening to them, respecting them and involving them that the country will make progress. The report of the committee of inquiry contains many proposals and opens many avenues: let us draw together future perspectives to involve young people in the development of public policies and the revitalization of the community. What are your future actions and the leads you keep from this report?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u228	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u229	Indeed, there are many avenues in the report. I had not anticipated your question, but this work is so important that I have highlighted the various mechanisms that we need to consider as a matter of priority. First of all, research should be financed to study the methods of contamination, in particular the role of young people in the chains of contamination. This is essential to better understand and prepare for possible future pandemics. Young people and families must also be made aware of the risk of cyber-harassment and cyber-violence. There is also a need to strengthen the attractiveness of and support for the health professions. Beyond the recruitment of city psychologists, who will accompany us in this particular period, I will mention the recruitment of psychologists by the institutions – we will double the number of those assigned to them – or recruitment into social services. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is also a question, as mentioned earlier, of finishing the work we started on the universal income of activity, or of strengthening the human and material resources of university health systems: here too, we are working with universities to improve the functioning of their SSU – university health service. It is also necessary to be able to change knowledge checks, postpone internships, take account of the delays caused by the health crisis, to ensure that the years are preserved – the requirements mentioned in the report. I could still quote a lot of leads. It seems to me essential to rely on this parliamentary work, which is very important, so that we can, together, bring about the right solutions, because the problem of youth is not the problem of the Government: it is that of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u230	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to put a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u231	For more than a year, the global epidemic of covid-19 has upset our lives. This is an unprecedented collective test for our generation and, even more so, for youth. At the age of dreaming of exploring the world, young people are confronted with a horizon that seems narrow and deeply closed to them. Students, apprentices, young workers: all those entering the labour market are facing the health, economic and social crisis, which also has an emotional and psychological impact. I measure in my district, the 18th arrondissement of Paris, the precariousness of young people, who no longer have access to student jobs, and who must follow their courses at a distance with what this implies in terms of isolation. I am aware of the anguish that this situation can cause: the testimonies that are delivered to us are often quite terrible. Doubt and uncertainty, the young people tell me, are the lot of everyday life. But there is also reason to hope and trust. In response to the multiple crises facing young people, the Government has taken a series of unprecedented support measures. In particular, I would like to recall here the one-euro meal in the CROUS or the young guarantee of 500 euros per month for each intern of vocational training, voted in the finance bill. For its part, the Île-de-France region announced at the beginning of the week a young active income conditional on free training for unemployed under 25 years of age. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us to what extent this initiative could be developed in partnership with the State, in order to avoid the effects of duplication or competition? It seems to me that this is the key to meeting the collective challenge facing the country. Indeed, confidence in the future of young people also depends on the ability of decision-makers to work together, hand in hand, to draw all in the same direction, that of the general interest. That is how we will be effective: the state, local authorities, businesses and associations, together for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u232	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u233	As you said, hope and momentum are necessary and can really be combined only if everyone is in their role, bringing energy, answers and solutions. More than ever, the government – the state – has acted in an unprecedented way: 7 billion with the plan "1 young 1 solution", you recalled. To each of the young people correspond answers, which have evolved since March, because the consequences of the crisis have changed as it is prolonged. You mentioned access to employment: more than ever, the recruitment of young people has been supported and stimulated. Thanks to the "1 young 1 solution" plan, 1.2 million contracts have been signed, as well as 550,000 apprenticeship contracts – among others – to talk only about the economic issue and the integration into the labour market. Beyond that, more than 600,000 young people were accompanied and welcomed. You ask how to combine our efforts and make each one's energies converge. This is the point raised by Minister Frédérique Vidal a few minutes ago. Youth is obviously an issue for the nation and we can all provide an answer and accompany it in this period: businesses of course, trusting it, recruiting, creating jobs, opening internships; communities, by disseminating information on solutions, but also by providing complements, such as the Ile-de-France region that you mentioned. I welcome this scheme, since it is in line with the young people's guarantee and with the integration into employment. I simply warn about the importance of humanly and individually accompanying the young person who needs a response in the amount of 500 euros. This is the spirit of the youth guarantee: its strength, beyond financial aid, is above all human accompaniment. If I were to make a wish, it would be the launch of concerted work with the State services, so that all young people can benefit from it, without leaving on the roadside those who need stronger human support to return to training, recover their energy and overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u234	The last question was put by Mrs Albane Gaillot, a non-attached Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u235	The situation of extreme insecurity in which young people have been living since the beginning of the health crisis has become unacceptable: it can no longer last. Psychological distress, isolation, but also financial precariousness: the students combine the difficulties, no longer succeeding in making ends meet. NGOs have been warning the situation of young women during confinement. There is no appeal: 65 to 70 per cent of students assisted by NGOs are women. Already, before the crisis, the precariousness was affecting young women, who were 40 per cent to be stockholders, compared with 34 per cent of students. However, precariousness affects many aspects of life, including the use of care that I would like to draw your attention to. What access to care for students, especially students, during the health crisis? 28% of the respondents mentioned too long appointment times and 12.5% referred to difficulties with distance and mobility in consulting a physician. I also ask myself the question of the capacity to receive and care for students within the framework of university health structures. While these services remained largely open during containment, they were primarily focused on dealing with the epidemic. What about everything else, access to sexual health information and prevention, and access to abortion? Containment periods have exacerbated and highlighted the difficulties of using IVG, raising concerns about an increase in the number of pregnancies imposed as a result of exceeding legal deadlines. How can we avoid sacrificing this generation? Above all, it is necessary to combat all forms of student insecurity, which means taking into account all inequalities, including those related to gender. Short-term measures must be accompanied by real structural changes. Young people must be guaranteed effective access to their rights, including access to care. How can we rethink and reorganise the university health service so that the continuity of prevention and care is ensured, even in the event of a health crisis, and, I would say, especially in the event of a health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u236	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u237	You are right to commend the work done by the university health service and, more generally, by what is now known as university health centres. Why are we calling them that? Because, for the past four years, we have been supporting the transformation of each service into a real place where not only institutional staff can accommodate students, but also health professionals from outside. For example, half-days or days of gynaecological or ophthalmological consultations can be proposed in these centres. These health centres therefore allow specialists to be consulted: of course, conventions have been concluded, so that students do not have to raise costs. There are particularities, in fact, and often women are more precarious: they are generally precarious because they are more frequently employed in part-time jobs or find it more difficult to find work. For the students, I announced the free periodic protections, a measure that, far from being anecdotal, is a measure of dignity aimed at solving a specific problem that particularly affects students in precarious situations. As I have said since the beginning of the afternoon, whenever the associations or the students themselves put their concrete problems on the table, we try to find solutions. The facts you are reporting probably existed, despite the huge involvement of university health centres, but we will continue to transform each SSU into a health centre that can accommodate specialists. It is a commitment that has been made and, of course, we will keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u238	The question session on the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-04-O1189.u239	Next sitting, Tuesday, 9 March, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft organic law on the election of the President of the Republic; Discussion of the draft constitutional law supplementing article 1 of the Constitution and relating to the preservation of the environment. The meeting is adjourned.
