ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, Mr Loïc Dombreval, Mr Dimitri Houbron and others to strengthen the fight against animal abuse (No 3661 corrected, 3791).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u2	In the general debate, Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u3	"He kills his bitch because she lost her hair," in Le Midi libre. "He is condemned for throwing two kittens on the third floor" in Ouest-France. "A calf found cut into pieces in a ditch," in La Voix du Nord. Not a day goes by unless the national, regional, or internet news reports acts of cruelty to animals. Every year, in France, there are 200 mistreated equidae, 100,000 abandoned animals. Sometimes it is ignorance that leads to lack of care; This violence often results from social distress: from a weak link, the animal becomes suffering-pain. If the cause of animal rights progresses, however, awareness-raising and awareness-raising work must continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u4	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u5	This constitutive amnesia of society, which is indifference, has become largely rooted in the minds at the expense of the living. However, the evolution of scientific knowledge and the territorial changes explain the desire of the citizens to see it more taken into account; The rejection of the suffering inflicted on the animals, which is increasingly prevalent, obliges us to reconsider our relationship with the animal, to make it more respectful. Beyond the subjective, emotional character, the relationships we establish with them, animals are far from being automatons of flesh. "Who doesn't like animals doesn't like people," my grandmother used to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u6	She was right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u7	[[Smile]] Grandmothers are always right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u8	Animals are full social partners; We have a duty of respect to them, not only for them, but also for ourselves. It is by becoming aware of our humanity that we conceive our responsibility towards them; It is with our human peculiarities – writing, speech, the sense of history, good and evil – that we draw up laws aimed at protecting the animal world. Animals sleep and we watch: those who watch are responsible for those who sleep. Yes, we have to stay awake! It is natural that the laws translate into concrete measures this responsibility, the duties we have towards the animal. That is why I shall vote without difficulty in favour of the provisions aimed at protecting our domestic animals, improving the conditions of detention of pets and equidae, strengthening criminal sanctions against abuse; they are important and especially necessary for the well-being of the living. Physical or psychological abuse, neglect and brutality are a daily reality: the cycle of violence must be stopped. On average, more than 9,500 crimes related to acts of cruelty are recorded each year by the gendarmerie services: deprivation of food, watering, care, maintenance in an environment that is a source of suffering, all of which deserve to be punished more severely. I also recognize the need to take measures to promote the well-being of captive wildlife. Once again, our relationship to the animal has evolved: we must adapt to the ethical, moral, philosophical and scientific influences of our time. For example, the planned end of the presence of non-domestic animals in travelling circuses is ideologically acceptable. On the other hand, it will not be financially sustainable if the State does not commit itself to deploying the resources required to support the sectors concerned in this transition; Otherwise the concern and disapproval of breeders, trainers, circus operators would be justified. Similarly, the ban on raising and cutting mink for their fur meets the expectations of our contemporaries; decisions of this magnitude should not be taken without supporting the actors involved. With regard to the rearing of mink, Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, your colleague Barbara Pompili announced in December a five-year transition with an envelope of €8 million. This period was reduced to two years when the text was examined in committee; An amendment by the rapporteur-general, Dombreval, was even intended to ban these farms without delay. In any of these assumptions, Mr.Minister, Mrs. and Mr. Rapporteurs, how much would you choose to devote to the accompaniment of these few institutions, and according to what formula? The issue of the rearing of animals for human consumption has not been addressed in the context of the discussion of this text, but is sometimes addressed in this House and often outside. I would like to warn some colleagues: here or elsewhere, their comments can constitute the ferments of agribashing and of all the drifts it provokes. I will always oppose those who raise citizens against farmers, farmers in our countryside, who work hard and love their animals, as you know, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u9	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u10	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I conclude, Madam President. This bill contains many acceptable measures that respond to the need to protect both domestic and wild animals. However, some of its provisions are incomplete and give rise to legitimate concerns among actors in both the animal and circus worlds. I fully support the cause of animal welfare, in the same way as I engage in other areas, including agricultural and food issues; In other words, I do not agree with the imprecision or the lack of state support for transitions. Animal abuse is a reality: the means deployed to combat it must be up to date. The Group of the Republicans respects the freedom to vote of its members, as it has always done, but will generally support this text, if it is not distorted during our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u11	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u12	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u13	The link we have with the animal has recently become a real social issue. As a result of this growing concern, most French people today call for strong measures to protect wild and domestic animals. The issue of animal suffering is recurrent under this legislature: since the law of 30 October 2018 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all, known as the EGALIM law, several bills have been tabled by colleagues from various groups, proof, if necessary, that this subject increasingly mobilizes and now requires a legislative translation to match the stakes. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (MoDem) and related Democrats, I welcome an important text on this subject, aimed at finally incorporating in the law provisions which have been debated many times, but which have never been adopted. In addition, it needs to be brought closer to the Government's recent announcements on the prohibition of live castration of piglets and the crushing of male chicks, or the plan of action to combat the abandonment of pet animals. The year 2021 will therefore be that of strengthening the fight against animal abuse and an important step towards translating words into deeds. It was high time to admit that, in our society, the suffering inflicted on animals is no longer acceptable. We are lagging behind in this area: join the group of European countries that are at the forefront of progress on animal welfare; We have the capacity. Let us not let the word of Gandhi resonate as a distant hope that one can judge the greatness of a nation by the way in which animals are treated there. On behalf of my group, I therefore thank the rapporteurs, as well as the other members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, for their work in clarifying and enriching the text that we are about to discuss. Let us recall the important points adopted in committee, which I have no doubt will be the subject of a broad consensus in this House: improving the conditions in which pets and equidae are held; strengthening penalties for the abuse of domestic animals; prohibition on the abuse of commercial wildlife and the rearing of mink for fur. I welcome the awareness of the purchasers of pet animals provided for in this text in order to reduce the risk of ill-treatment or even abandonment, alas more and more frequent. In France, 100,000 abandoned animals are collected each year by associations that provide them with care and comfort. I would like to acknowledge the work of Mrs Echeveteri, in Val-d'Oise, pioneer of the certificate of awareness of the buyers, and the association SOS Multicats, which, since 2011, offers refuge to cats. The latter, moreover, expects much from the provisions on compulsory sterilization of stray cats. We will also propose that you clarify the wording which we have had adopted in committee, so that the division of powers between the municipality and the intercommunality will entail the cost of this operation. We will thus help the mayors of the small communes, who may not have the resources to finance it, to limit the risks of feline overpopulation, while guaranteeing respect for the animal. It can always be identified on behalf of the animal protection association that would request it. I also welcome the previously mentioned ban on the rearing of mink for their fur, which has been particularly criticized after the slaughter in Denmark of 15 million of these animals, some of which have been contaminated by what was suspected of being a variant of the coronavirus. These farms are conducive to the transmission of infectious diseases from animals to humans, and this major risk to public health must cause them to be banned quickly. Our growing proximity to this type of animal can have drastic repercussions, whose epidemic of covid-19 is only an illustration. In order to support the operators and the territories affected, I propose to study the hypothesis of a conversion of the sites. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, Rapporteur, and Mr M. Loïc Dombreval and Dimitri Houbron, rapporteurs, also applaud]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support this text, considering that it marks the beginning of a series of strong measures in favour of the animal cause, as well as an awareness of its ethical, ecological and health issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u14	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u15	The proposal for a law to strengthen the fight against animal abuse concerns one of the major challenges facing man in the twenty-first century: its environment, in a broad sense. Whether it is animal species or the planet, we have considered it too long as our thing. Today it is high time to protect him in these two aspects, and thus to regain the fullness of our humanity. In the early 2000s, the concept of "one health" summed up in a few words a notion theorized for more than a century: human and animal health are interdependent, moreover linked to the ecosystems in which they coexist. Our health depends on that of the animal kingdom, which in turn derives from that of plants. The health crisis we are going through reminds us: our existence depends and will continue to depend on nature. This should encourage us to become ever more humble and benevolent towards the world around us. Let us remember the progress made since the so-called Grammont Act of July 2, 1850, imposing sanctions on "those who have publicly and improperly abused domestic animals". The result will be the creation in 1963 of the offence of cruelty to an animal, the recognition of the sensitivity of animals, in 1976, by article L. 214-1 of the Rural Code, the tightening of their conditions of sale in 1999. On 16 February 2015 is one of the main dates concerning the rights of animals: Article 515-14 of the Civil Code establishes that they are "living beings endowed with sensitivity". More recently, in 2020, the announcement of the end of live castration of piglets marks another notable step forward. This bill is therefore part of a long journey, that of consideration for animals and of the normative and legal evolution which, gradually, allows them to be better protected. The animal cause has now become central and inescapable. During exchanges and meetings in my constituency, I was able to see that the subject of animal protection was also the subject of a genuine citizen's commitment. In the tiger caress shelter, in Arelaune-en-Seine, aging animals, tired of a past life far from their natural environment, find comfort and sweetness. The resolute action of the association Biker animal force, in the city of Barentin, allows to accompany and treat animals and to sterilize goats. Let us not forget, at last, the development of organic and open farms and barns, which make it possible to better respect animal life. This commitment of our fellow citizens, in my constituency or elsewhere, shows that the animal cause is progressing and that consciences are awakening. Taking care of animals means showing global humanity, and we must encourage that ambition. With the improvement of the conditions of detention of pets and equidae, the strengthening of penalties in the fight against the abuse of domestic animals or the cessation of the abuse of wild species used for commercial purposes, this text makes it possible, as it is, to combat effectively various forms of animal abuse. In particular, it will prohibit travelling wild animal shows and contribute to better protection of pets. Let us, however, ensure that certain proposals, which appear at first glance to be full of common sense, are well accompanied by the means to ensure their proper implementation. I am thinking in particular of Article 4, which aims to generalize the sterilization of stray cats by means of an order made by the mayor of the municipality concerned. Our group will be vigilant to ensure that the resources allocated to the municipalities are proportional to the extent of the phenomenon found in their territory. Let us avoid to the communal bloc the bad surprise of being entrusted with missions without adequate resources. I think we'll have an opportunity to get back to it. In any event, as submitted by its authors, this text constitutes an important first point of balance. Some would have preferred to go further; On the contrary, some would have liked to limit prohibitive or coercive measures; Others would have wished to postpone them, of course; However, the examination in committee allowed for clarification and increased ambition of the text. As the authors of this bill, the Socialist and related group can assert with force: animal suffering is unbearable and must be combated. [[Applause on the SOC group's banks. – The rapporteur also called on the Commission to:]] I will borrow my conclusion from Robert Badinter, who would recall in 2019, at the symposium "Rights and legal personality of the animal", that "the taking into account of animals has made considerable progress in our society. One can be delighted with this, especially since this is not always the case with regard to human beings themselves. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u16	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u17	The animal is a living being. He thinks, learns and transmits. He is not just the companion of life and faithful friend to many of us: he is also the auxiliary of the security and security forces and that of the rescuers on land and at sea, as well as a guide for the visually impaired and with reduced mobility. It is also, in the wild, one of the essential links of the great chain of living. Just like us, the animal is a sensitive being. He suffers when he is hurt, physically and psychologically. Maltreatment of an animal is therefore socially unacceptable, and it is only now known how close the link between animal and personal violence is. Fighting violence against men and animals, same fight! Combating animal abuse is also contributing to a more fraternal world. This should be the main road map for all who wish to build the world after covid-19, a more just and caring world for the living. It is imperative that we act in the direction of an ethic that is not restricted to relations between men, but concerns all living beings. And there is no need for great scientific knowledge for this: the mere fact that life is beautiful and wonderful is enough. Perhaps more intensely in these painful hours of health crisis, we realize that life must be respected and protected in all its forms. Reading, in the wake of the pandemic, of the teaching of the great naturalist Theodore Monod helps us to better understand the times we live in: he calls on us to build respect for life as the basis of a new society. In The Hippopotamus and the Philosopher, he wrote that "The rigor of laws will no longer be necessary on the day when the conscience of a man, finally humanized, will forbid him any unnecessary destruction, [...] the day when he discovers solidarity with the rest of creatures and other animals, he will have learned respect for life. Unfortunately, we are still far from it, but it is not a utopia: it is a promise that we can keep if we want to. We do not yet know the causes of the appearance and development of coronavirus, but it is very likely that poaching, illegal trafficking, illegal consumption of pangolins, are not alien to the current pandemic. On our planet, man's destiny is eminently linked to that of the animal: to respect the animal is to respect man, and vice versa. This will no doubt be one of the lessons of the terrible and painful trial that we are going through, a lesson that involves making choices – the right ones, if possible – and acting. We urgently need to regain the unity of the living world, the solidarity of things and beings from one end of the chain of living through a new moral of respect for life. The humanized man's day has not yet come. Acts of cruelty and violence against an animal are infinite forms of evil. When we neglect him, he suffers. When we deprive him of liberty, he suffers. When we beat him, he suffers. When we abandon him at the edge of a holiday road, he suffers. When we maim him, he suffers. When we crush him alive, the grass and throw him still dying in a garbage bag, he suffers. When we cast him alive, he suffers. When we produce it in the wild in shows, it suffers. When we sexually abuse him, he suffers. Abuse is a set of acts that intentionally or unintentionally inflict pain, injury, physical or psychological suffering that can lead to death. We must fight it and punish it severely, and educate the other man or animal from an early age to be well-contracted. The bill before us today is one of the foundations of a larger building that we are called upon to build and strengthen. I would dare say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the minimum urgency. Putting an end to bullfighting, cock fighting, running and glutting, or the digging of badgers and foxes, are all fighting that remain current. The resistance is still numerous and tenacious, but I am convinced that the dynamics of our hominization are irresistible. The night of trials that we go through invites us to dream, to dream together, to dream great. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs and Messrs. the rapporteurs applaud. – MM. Bastien Lachaud and Cédric Villani also applaud]] The group will vote in favour of this bill, welcoming the work of the three rapporteurs, Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, Loïc Dombreval and Dimitri Houbron, and continuing to fight animal abuse, all ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u18	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u19	This evening we are discussing an important bill on animals and their well-being, aimed at strengthening the fight against their abuse. The IDU and independent group would like to welcome the desire to strengthen this struggle and the tabling of a new text to this effect. On this subject, important steps have already been taken, including the recognition of animals as sensitive beings in 2015, voted at the time by members of our IDU group. We must now go further in order to respond to the changing mentality and that of our society. I would like to pay special tribute to the work of our colleague Béatrice Descamps, the author of a bill introduced in May 2018...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u20	Yes! This text is a copy-paste!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u21	... and who seems to have inspired this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u22	That's the least we can say! It's called a plagiarism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u23	The main thing, finally, is that provisions are voted on. However, would it not have been preferable to involve all the parliamentarians involved, moreover when their work is resumed? This is about respecting the commitment of parliamentarians, as well as the additional workload that these methods involve for the collaborators of the groups and for the staff of the National Assembly. In any case, Béatrice Descamps will have the opportunity to speak during the debates. Many topics can only bring us together; But as far as livestock farming is concerned, we believe that the EGALIM law of 2018 should first be applied and then evaluated. Let us remember that, like many of their colleagues, the IDU Members supported at the time the experimentation of mobile slaughterhouses aimed at avoiding transport over long distances, and thus the ill-being of animals, the extinction of the hen cage farming from 2022 and the experimentation of video surveillance in slaughterhouses. We regret, however, that no article in the bill addresses the issue of slaughter, nor the issue of animals and animals that are sometimes marketed there under difficult conditions, in any case questionable. Among the provisions contained in the text, we support the strengthening of sanctions and penalties for cruelty to animals, as well as the improvement of the traceability of the sale of animals. Interesting in animal welfare is not to stigmatize, but to tighten sanctions and to be ruthless with those who mistreat or deliberately neglect animals. We support this approach; That is why one of our amendments will propose to ban the sale on non-specialised platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u25	Chapter IV, which puts an end to the rearing of American mink for fur production, is also a major step forward, and we welcome the gradual nature of the transition. On another subject, we will make sure – that will not surprise you, dear colleague Dombreval – to protect the activities of zoological parks. These are factors of local attractiveness, of course, but they can also and above all, when a genuine partnership is established with the State, fulfil a mission of conservation of certain animal species, of preserving biodiversity, and participate in the reflection on global warming and its impact on animals. Wildlife parks also contribute to the reintegration of some species into their natural environment. They also have an educational mission with their visitors. The debates we will have this evening must help ensure that zoos are given special attention. We need them; As for them, they are fully in line with a number of provisions of the text and are ready to help us implement them. As such, we will propose two amendments to Article 12, which are intended to delete the provisions on cetaceans. Indeed, we consider that the prohibition of cetaceans in certain zoological parks, in the absence of any other means or accommodation solution, poses a real risk of endangering these animals. It should be remembered that zoological parks respect very strict rules, both in terms of reception infrastructure and animal treatment. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs and Messrs. rapporteurs also applaud]] We will be constructive in the coming discussions, when we defend our amendments, and we hope, Madam and gentlemen, that you will look kindly at them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u26	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u27	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u28	Today we are debating a law officially aimed at strengthening the fight against animal abuse. However, as the majority of the Republic in progress is used to it, it has given this text a title that does not really correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u29	Put down a text yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u30	By declaring our amendments arbitrarily inadmissible, it prevents us from discussing the most obvious forms of animal abuse. For her, grinding live chicks is not animal abuse. For her, the live castration of piglets is not animal abuse...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u31	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u32	...not more than to cut their tails alive or to cut their teeth. Would our colleagues in the majority accept such practices for dogs or cats? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For La République en marche, locking chickens or rabbits on the equivalent of an A4 leaf is not animal abuse. Yet these herbivorous placids become cannibals! For La République en marche, the factory farms are also not about abuse – that is, the very idea that our colleagues in animal life are making... For La République en marche, trapping birds with glu, all species, is not animal abuse. Yet birds that end up with their feet, beaks and feathers sticking together are condemned to a long agony where they struggle in vain to free themselves. For La République en marche, to hunt foxes or badgers drunk of terror up into their burrows by impelling them with dogs for long hours before digging them up and finishing them by striking them wildly with iron bars, this is not animal abuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u33	But yes, that's right...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u34	The fact that protected species can be found in the same burrows does not cause them any more concern than the presence of children in front of such scenes. No, for our colleagues in La République, as for their friends in the hunters' lobby, this is all about respecting biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u35	You're mistreating us, Mr. Lachaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u36	For La République en marche, that riders hunt a deer for hours with a pack of dogs until the animal is completely exhausted, which will be finished with a white weapon – sometimes even in a SNCF station, or in a pond where it will end up drowned – is not animal abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u37	Demago!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u38	We will therefore not debate any of these practices, which the Republic on the move considers to be irrelevant in a law aimed at combating animal abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u39	You're out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u40	The democracy of Twitter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u41	Yes, this law is welcome, because animals are too ill-treated in France, but it is hypocritical and deliberately inconsistent. It makes an arbitrary distinction between animals that can continue to be abused and animals that are sufficiently compassionate to be spared. According to La République en marche, raising mink in cages is unacceptable, but there is no problem in raising chickens in cages. Pulling the hairs of angoras rabbits out alive in a farm, no problem, but that a particular owner of rabbits should be careful to make half of them, and he will risk – rightly – prison: all this is totally inconsistent! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] That said, this arbitrariness has its reasons, namely money and lobbyism. Industrial and intensive farming is exculpated in advance. According to La République en marche, if it is breeding, abuse cannot exist! Of course, it is easier to attack individuals than to tackle the real problems posed by intensive farming, which is nevertheless not viable for these poor animals, nor for farmers, whether economically or ecologically. It is more than time to realize that the fates of man and animals are linked. Man is an animal like any other and, as such, he needs to feed himself, to move around, to have a social life and, of course, he can also get sick. The coronavirus pandemic originates from the passage of an animal's virus to humans. There is agreement that intensive mink rearing is responsible for the appearance of the English variant or even the primary origin of the pandemic. In this context, allowing such intensive farming to continue is a madness; It's even criminal, because all intensive farms are sanitary bombs that risk causing new pandemics that are even more serious than the one we currently know. We must change our relationship with animals and establish cooperation for common survival instead of the wild exploitation we are engaged in and which leads us all to the edge of the abyss. It is therefore a global law on harmony between men and animals that we need, and not a law based on electoral opportunism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u42	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u43	Unbearable images of animals raised under unworthy conditions, worrying, dismaying figures, abandonments, this ultimate act of cowardice, the aspirations of our fellow citizens to better take into account animal welfare, and our increased knowledge of animal sensitivity are all reasons to fight against all forms of animal abuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u44	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u45	The status of animals has made significant progress in our law. The Rural Code was amended in 1976, the Penal Code in 1999, and the Civil Code in 2015 – I was one of those MPs who made the choice to definitively recognize the animal, its rights and sensitivity, and to condemn certain practices. Much remains to be done and, as often, societal expectations are ahead of politics. The joint initiative referendum on animal welfare is also a good indicator of this: more than 800,000 citizens have mobilized to ask the public authorities for strong measures. The bill we are considering today responds to some of the most consensual demands of our fellow citizens, which concern domestic animals and a small number of wild animals. However, an entire portion of the animal condition is deliberately hidden. We understand that with this text you do not wish, alas, to open the debate on issues relating to animal abuse in the processes of rearing and slaughter, particularly in the context of certain practices due to the industrialization of livestock farming. Not a word about cage farming, not a word about mandatory video control in slaughterhouses, yet voted in early 2017 in this Chamber – candidate Macron's promise has become President Macron's renunciation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u46	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u47	There is therefore an urgent need to enforce and strengthen existing legislation where necessary. Of course, your text also stalemates on other issues such as hunting...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u48	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u49	...the bullfighting or experiments on animals. The rapporteur has tried to make minimal progress by tabling an amendment aimed at introducing a right to conscientious objection in carrying out experiments on non-domestic animals not held in captivity, but his proposal has been considered inadmissible, which I very much regret. Given all these shortcomings, it is difficult to see in this bill the expected revolution in animal welfare. For us, therefore, this text will largely remain a missed act. However, we note some progress: as far as the living conditions of wild animals in circuses and delphinariums are concerned, the ban on buying and displaying wild animals seems to me to be in the right direction. The ban on the rearing of mink for their fur by 2023 also meets a strong expectation on the part of our fellow citizens, but it must of course be conditioned by the support of the professionals in the sector. However, does this require a postponement of the measure to 2025, as proposed by the Government? We believe that no, and to be honest, we believe that it would be legitimate to ban the import of mink furs from abroad, where the conditions of rearing are not better than in France, so much so. As regards the creation of a pre-purchase awareness certificate, the strengthening of the identification of pets and the consolidated penalties for abandonment, these are good measures, and we hope that they will help to combat acts of ill-treatment of domestic animals. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mrs Béatrice Descamps also applauds]] With regard to the article making the sterilization of stray cats compulsory by the municipalities, many local authorities fear that this new burden will represent a significant additional cost at a time when local finances are already under pressure. Even if the angry subjects have been voluntarily evacuated from this bill, it will be difficult for us to oppose it. For my part, I find myself in the few advances that you are proposing, without losing sight of the fact that the most difficult battles remain to be waged. Finally, it is to regret, because of his taste for incompleteness, that I shall vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u50	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u51	[[Smile]] This evening we are considering a text which invites us to lay a new stone for the defence and promotion of animal condition. We already know that the level of ambition of this text is very modest, and all we can hope for is that it will allow for a more in-depth debate than that, truncated, which took place a few months ago when Cédric Villani's bill was examined. The provisions of this text concern mainly domestic animals, which is a good thing. I have a fixed idea, because I had already said so in my speech in connection with the examination of our colleague Villani's proposal, when I mentioned the dogs, our first companions to the higher paleolithic, the cats, who began to accompany us to the neolithic, and of course the equidae. The text also includes measures, which Mrs Pompili has already taken, concerning the wild animals of circuses and delphinariums, as well as the rearing of American mink. As far as pets are concerned, it may be useful to issue an awareness certificate – of knowledge, in a way – to the purchasers of animals. This measure also joins the concept of responsible adoption of the SPA, the Society for the Protection of Animals, in that it aims to respect the biological and health imperatives of such animals, to avoid compulsive purchases and to curb the phenomena of abandonment. It seems to us that this information and prevention system was intended to be extended to all the masters to accompany them, in connection with the first actors of the well-contracting: veterinarians and animal protection companies. On the other hand, we regret that the law does not simply prohibit online selling, which seems to us to be an opaque pool of mercantile practices and a potential source of abuse. Article 3 updates the impoundment scheme by providing that each municipality or EPCI – a public institution for intercommunal cooperation – must have an impound or a refuge – I will return to it. Currently, only 60 per cent of the territories carry out this mission, and it is legitimate to seek general coverage for this public service. However, the texts do not raise the question of means for communities. Carrying out this task on a daily basis is costly work in men, equipment and operating expenses, which the widespread sterilization of stray cats will further increase, and we see to this extent a major obstacle to the objective of your law and its realization. For all these reasons, we ask you, Minister, to clarify the announcements you have made, consisting of the granting of €20 million for shelters – in investments, I imagine – and the creation of an observatory of abandonments, telling us how they are supposed to relate to the implementation of this law. As far as impoundments are concerned, the text lacks legal clarity in that it does not distinguish between impoundment – government services or delegates – and shelters, which are not covered by the communities. As far as equidae are concerned, we would have liked a systematic puncture. We welcome the tightening of sanctions against animal abuse, and we will be open to the amendments that will strengthen them. I am in favour of the proposal to put an end to the ownership of wild animals in circuses and delphinariums, while at the same time repelling any stigmatization of the circus world. The introduction of such measures must be accompanied by sustained support for the Circassian structures. In addition to doubling the financial aid for animal circuses, set up by decree at the end of 2020, we call for a multi-year allocation to the Circassian structures, particularly itinerant ones, hard hit by the crisis and forced to renew their show season. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on a few benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] In conclusion, our group feels that the text has been drafted a little too quickly and contains unsubstantiated decisions, the application of which is therefore hypothetical. In these circumstances, freedom of vote will prevail within our group. For my part, after hearing my cats Juju and Savon, who gave me their approval, I will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u52	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u53	It is with great pride that we begin tonight the examination of our proposal for a law on animal abuse. It was a goal we had set ourselves, it has now been achieved; It was a commitment we had made, it is now fulfilled. In our country, one in two households owns a domestic animal. This bill convenes something essential: our relationship to living, to ethics, just as much as our imagination. Last was Colette's life and writing partner, whose work is populated by cats who shared his life and inspired him. Bébert was the hero of Céline's German trilogy, and without a doubt the most famous cat in French literature. Batka was the "white dog" of Romain Gary, the one he re-educated, unable to separate from him; But not all the French are Romain Gary, in fact many other plans. Acts of abuse are still massive: abandonment, compulsive purchases, wilful abuse or neglect. This text is a strong answer, a clear answer, a major step forward. It enshrines the unwavering commitment of those who have been fighting for years so that the law will finally protect those who cannot be protected without it. I welcome the struggles of associations, actors on the ground who alert us, who protect, who collect, who have been raising awareness for years. Last Friday, with Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, we went to the Yvelines, to the Fondation Brigitte Bardot, a leading player in the fight for animal protection for thirty years. It is thanks to the efforts of these actors, thanks to their convictions, that we are here today. When Brigitte Bardot said: "When people are taught to love animals, they are taught to love men", what criticisms she has not heard! So what are the progress of this text? We are responsible for those who wish to acquire animals. As we know, compulsive purchases lead to abandonment. You can't buy an animal like you buy a toy. Adopting an animal is a commitment of a lifetime, of one's life. It is in order to incur this responsibility that this text creates a certificate of knowledge: the owners will no longer be able to say that they did not know. Because you don't acquire a cat or dog like you buy a vacuum cleaner, we will supervise the marketing of animals online so that only breeders and refuges have access to them, with strengthened and effective controls. This text will also provide an opportunity to fill legal gaps, particularly with regard to equidae, in order to deal with the massive abandonments caused by the crisis. We will also ban pony rides, alienating attraction still too popular in some carnivals. We will go even further in the sentencing scale. To punish animal abuse of a simple contravention is no longer acceptable. The criminal response must be clear on this and other issues. It will now be a crime. We will aggravate the penalties for abuse, demanding up to three years' imprisonment, and we will go up to five years if they lead to the death of the animal. This text is also an opportunity to review our report on wildlife. They are no longer intended to be exhibited in circuses. This prohibition will be clearly set out in the law and a deadline will be set. We will end the practice of bear and wolf displays and mink farms within two years. In the majority, we will defend an amendment to prohibit the rearing of all wild animals for their fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u54	But not angina rabbits!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u55	To hear some members of the opposition, this text would have taken up only consensual elements. I did not know that the search for consensus was wrong in our society and in our Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u57	...and I wonder why you didn't look for him in your parliamentary niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u58	Yes, we're waiting for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u59	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I hear that this text, Mr Lachaud, would not deal with the real issues. Why didn't you ever have the courage to put them on the agenda of your parliamentary niches and to allow bills related to them to be debated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u60	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u61	Certainly working on a bill is a little more demanding than posting a video on YouTube. This text, many of us have long hoped for it, others have feared it. Within our majority, we have worked very hard with the Government for the past three years. I am thinking in particular of our three rapporteurs, Samantha Cazebonne, Laurianne Rossi, Claire O'Petit, Corinne Vignon, Typhanie Degois, Anne-Laurence Petel, Guillaume Kasbarian, Florence Provendier...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u62	The thin flower!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u63	...and many others who have been constantly mobilizing and playing an alert role. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These measures offer hope for greater recognition of the rights of animals as sensitive living beings. I welcome this collective awareness and hope that Victor Hugo's right words will guide our action: "Yes, man is responsible and will one day report. / On this earth where the shadow and the dawn have their turn, / Be the steward of God, but the honest steward. / Tremble of any abuse of power on the beast. "
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u64	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u65	Alexandre Soljenitsyne said: "Today we don't think much about the love a man can have for an animal; We laugh at people who are attached to cats. But if we stop loving animals, wouldn't we also be forced to stop loving people? " If I find it absurd to say that an animal life is equivalent to a human life, it seems obvious to me that the way we treat animals says something about ourselves and our humanity. So we can only abound in the sense of some of the measures in this text which, in line with the Grammont Act of 1850, the first law in favour of animal protection, today strengthens our legislative arsenal to better combat animal abuse, even if the moment may not seem the best chosen in the current health and economic context. This is a subject that cannot be ignored, especially since one in two Frenchmen owns an animal in a country with some 63 million pets. I therefore welcome the tightening of the penalties applicable to persons guilty of acts of cruelty and serious ill-treatment of a domestic animal, making the death of the animal an aggravating circumstance. This will allow the justice to sentence a person to three years' imprisonment and 45,000 euros in fine when acts of cruelty resulted in the death of the animal. I also fully subscribe to the creation of a certificate of knowledge for any acquisition of a future pet in order to better empower purchasers. Let us not forget that every year some 100,000 dogs and cats are abandoned. I would also like to add the ban on the online sale of animals, as proposed by the Fondation Brigitte Bardot and the SPA, a measure of common sense – a measure of obviousness, I should say. I am also in favour of tightening the penal sanction to combat zoopornography: 60000 euros in fine and three years in prison, it is not expensive paid. Although zoophilia has been banned in France since 2004, the production and dissemination of zoophilic images has not yet been banned. This is a real challenge, since every month there would be no less than 1.6 million visits to zoopornography sites – without comment. On the other hand, and this is my point of major disagreement with this text, I cannot abound in the sense of a bill that, it must be said, criminalizes circus professionals, a whole world that is an integral part of our cultural heritage. I would like to remind you that in France circus professionals have a real love for their animals, which they often consider almost as members of their families. I cannot let it be said that for a few isolated cases, for a few culprits, all would be sadistics condemned to see their profession destroyed. Circus is part of our culture, part of our history. It's an art, and even one of the most popular. Gilbert Gruss, a member of the National Council for Animal Welfare, explains without any ambiguity: "If we are forbidden to have exotic animals, it is the death of our profession." As always, I think we need to know how to measure. The pure and simple ban on wild animals in circuses should be replaced by a stronger, more demanding, more draconian control, with at the key stronger sanctions against black sheep, if I dare say, while leaving to these enthusiasts the care, the talent to continue to make our collective imagination live and feed it. In these morose times, it is important, even essential. Ladies and gentlemen, while I have understood the aim of this text, which is to protect domestic animals, I regret that some people have forgotten. I am thinking in particular of the manufacture of foods such as nuggets, for which chicks are sorted and then crushed alive before they end up in our plates. Unfortunately, the amendment I tabled to prohibit such a practice was declared inadmissible. The same was true of my amendment to prohibit ritual slaughter, i.e. without dizziness, cruel practice, dangerous in health, whose ban would have the merit of satisfying both the defenders of secularism and those of the animal condition. A similar amendment to the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic has suffered the same fate. That is the case with all my amendments on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u66	Because they're not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u67	[[Marie-France Lorho applauds]] Anyway, when will you finally agree to deal with this question? Will you ever have the audacity?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u68	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u69	[[Smile]] Madam, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you. The various interventions showed that what was at stake was a common fight, a fight to fight against the abandonment of domestic animals, against animal abuse, for which France had a sad record. Listening to Aurore Bergé, David Corceiro, Vincent Ledoux, Sophie Auconia, Olivier Falorni, to Julien Dive evoking his grandmother and Hubert Wulfranc speaking of his cats one feels a convergence that shows that this fight goes beyond partisan divisions. Many of you have mentioned in this rostrum the provisions courageously defended by the rapporteurs. I am thinking of the certificate of knowledge, so much necessary, or of investments in structures such as shelters. The hand must never shake against acts of ill-treatment, which are condemned, in the name of animal welfare, to be accompanied. Several speakers have pointed to topics on which we need to move forward. We have the capacity to do so. Mr. Leseul referred to the challenge posed by the concept of "one health". What makes us understand the moments we are living in? Well, there is a convergence between the human world, the animal world and the plant world, a subject of great importance that we must address with a strong will. The progress of this bill is in this direction. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Lachaud, this is a habit of your group, you have preferred the words of stage rather than the constructive debate. I imagine you've already tweeted to try to denigrate the presidential majority, but what you're saying is wrong. I give you an example: for the ban on live castration of piglets, the order was made on February 24, 2020, a year ago! It's public! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You always follow the same amalgam strategy to better divide then. Let's talk about animal welfare. Who, Mr. Lachaud, has proposed to invest more than 230 million euros in farms and slaughterhouses? Who proposed to invest more than 20 million euros in shelters? It's this presidential majority! But for that, you didn't vote for any credit – none! Then, what I deplore in your remarks – and I do so firmly and solemnly – is your propensity to stigmatize things. When you talk about intensive breeding, with some of your friends, you let up some kind of suspicion...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u70	He's right! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u71	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, UDI-I and LR groups]] [[Vif applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, IUD-I and LR. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] ... making people believe that what we are living in would be the fault of the French breeders. It's unworthy, Mr. Lachaud! Intensive breeding in France has nothing to do with what is happening in other countries! You stigmatize and always make the same comparisons! You must have already tweeted, with your friends, to say that all is the fault of intensive breeding. And what will the French do? They will turn to the breeders and make them responsible! But I'm proud of the French breeders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u72	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u73	Because what will happen with such a speech? We will come to have to import meat from Asian countries, for example, where intensive farming has nothing to do with what it can be at home! So please stop the stigmatization! [[Vif applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens. and IUD-I – Ms. Émilie Bonnivard also applauds]] Finally, Mr Lachaud, you have no gratitude to your colleagues, to the rapporteurs. As Aurore Bergé said, it was up to you to propose, within the framework of one of the parliamentary niches of your group, such a bill, taking into account all the work done. Many members of the opposition have acknowledged that they have been discussing these proposals for years and that no one has ever given them the opportunity to vote in the Chamber. It is possible today, and you are not grateful to your colleagues. You know this famous phrase: "Recognition is a disease of the dog not transmissible to man. You are a new example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u74	Excellent! It's going off on the wheel hats!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u75	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u76	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u77	This is a very important article, in that it sets out the conditions under which humans adopt their animals. This should not be a compulsive purchase; Nor is it the acquisition of a toy or a toy, but the purchase of a lifetime. Besides, when we have children, we ask them if they've thought well, because we'll have to take the animal out in the evenings, at all times. The pet brings a lot of happiness to everyday life, but it also includes servitudes, which can be happy when you love it, but which still prove to be constraints. That is why it is necessary to limit, but above all to educate: I believe a great deal in raising awareness from an early age, in education to another, in the diversity and richness of the living world. That is why we are naturally very much in favour of this article, however, by introducing a nuance. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, it would be necessary to extend the certificate of awareness, beyond that which acquires an animal for the first time, to any person acquiring an animal – we will come back to that when the amendments are presented. One can, in fact, buy or obtain a cat for free today and tomorrow a dog: it will not be the same knowledge or the same approach. That is why this provision should be generalised, which is in any case a very important step forward. Dimitri Houbron and I, who are elected in a border department, observe very closely what is happening in Belgium, on the other side of the border, where it has been implemented in several Belgian provinces – with relative success, it must be recognized. It is up to us to earn points with this certificate of knowledge and awareness, at each acquisition. I thank you, in any case, for this proposal which promotes the cause of animals and humans.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u78	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u79	I am not used to using the microphone of this House to denounce any practice in this House; So that's not what I'm gonna do tonight. However, I feel the need to say, as we begin to consider this bill, which is both a satisfaction and a disappointment to me. Satisfaction, of course, with my work included in this text. What was not my surprise when I discovered it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u80	Plagiarism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u81	This can be part of the game, I'll admit it. However, let me say my great disappointment about the method, especially since when I learned that you were working on the subject, I had spontaneously proposed to collaborate with you, in a trans-partisan way, thinking that could be done. I didn't get an answer. So I wanted to thank here, in the Chamber, and I am sure you will understand it, the very many people I auditioned in the years 2017 and 2018 and who have made a significant contribution to the drafting of the bill that I tabled in May 2018 – which unfortunately has never been debated – to strengthen the fight against the abandonment of domestic animals. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I Group and on a few benches of the LR Group, as well as among non-attached Members]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on a few benches of the LR group. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] Articles 8b and 8c of your text reproduce, to the nearest word, Article 1 of my draft law, which was the result of these hearings and the work carried out with my team. We will not debate here what pen has written this text or who defends it – it is not the subject. And even if I have been truly troubled, it will not stop me from being at the rendezvous of this fight. In France, an average of 12 domestic animals are abandoned per hour. It is therefore urgent to act for them and I will support you, in spite of everything, with strength, because that is what I believe to be a member of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u82	Excellent! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u83	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u84	Many points have already been raised with regard to article 1. I'll try to add something to it. First of all, this article concerns only a few animals. Beyond pets, we could – we should – have extended it to the possession of any pet or daily animal. This detention must be an act understood by the person who chooses to take responsibility for an animal throughout the animal's life – and some animals can live for a very long time. Next, it would be interesting to consider how to moderate the French' addiction to pets. This question has not been fully raised in this House during the debates. France is probably the European country with the largest number of pet animals and animals in general, excluding livestock. This exponential growth – to take just one example, I will quote that of domestic cats – is a biodiversity problem and has an impact on CO emissions. When we know that the number of domestic cats known as owners – i.e., not wandering cats, nor those that have become wild again – increases each year from 400,000 to 500,000 individuals, we can wonder about the increasingly frequent presence of cats at home, given the consequences of food to be produced to feed them, but also about the dejections and impacts that they generate downstream. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We should have gone much further in this article – and I will defend an amendment on this – on the responsibility of keeping an animal in relation to biodiversity and climate issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u85	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u86	I would like to take advantage of Article 1 to reiterate, both personally and on behalf of my group, that we would like to prohibit the sale of so-called domestic animals on-line between individuals. This seems to us to be a major prerequisite for fighting more effectively against the mercantile practices which are multiplying behind what must be called also animal trafficking and which sometimes contribute to the abandonment of such animals. An amendment was tabled on this issue; We will vote on it. [[Mr. Guillaume Garot applauds]] I would also like to reiterate my call for reflection so that the certificate of awareness can be the subject of joint work between the partners benefiting from local expertise and any master of a domestic animal: animals can be collected in situations of empathy, without the master measuring the conditions of his or her actual well-being. This refers to the relationship between man and the animal, in the light of the problems of isolation which are not always good counselors with regard to the treatment of the animal in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u87	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u88	Section 1, which opens our debates on the bill, is essential because it sets a prerequisite for the acquisition and adoption of an animal: it will be, if you vote, the certificate of knowledge. Currently, there are no prerequisites or true accompaniment when you adopt or buy an animal. But abuse is as much a result of deliberate abuse of an animal as negligence because you have not been sufficiently accompanied or prepared for the upheavals that the animal will bring about in your life. We do not want to stop those in France who wish to become owners of an animal, but we want them to be able to do so in conscience, in the right place, especially with breeders or refuges, who are doing an exceptional job of proximity. The objective of Article 1 is therefore to realise that the adoption of an animal constitutes a commitment for the life of the animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u89	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u90	Yes, Minister, we are opposed to intensive farming, and yes, there is intensive farming in France, which is a problem when 1% of farms produce more than 50% of the country's pigs, chickens and eggs. Mr. Dombreval acknowledged this, and he is right to point out that mink farming is a health problem. It is necessary to put an end to these farms, to avoid any risk of the appearance of variants of covid-19. The same problem exists for all intensive farms: it is well known that the promiscuity of many animals within the same enclosed space, as are those factory farms denounced by both Greenpeace and the peasant confederation, and therefore by breeders – do not dislike you, minister – creates a risk of contamination and therefore a health risk. In addition, intensive livestock farming poses a real problem, including for herders, because it contributes to competition with abroad and to the problem of the price of agricultural products. It also has consequences for their lives. A farmer commits suicide every two days in France: it is proof that this profession has a problem, and that it must be helped. It is not by keeping it in a system that destroys nature and destroys people that we will succeed. Yes, Minister, we are opposed to intensive farming, because we are in favour of peasant, ecological, organic farming, an agriculture that respects humans, animals and nature. No, we won't change our mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u91	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u92	"We don't have two hearts, one for animals and one for humans. We have a heart or we don't have one": this quote from Alphonse de Lamartine corresponds to our state of mind and that of many French people with regard to the protection we owe to animals. They are companions of life often indispensable for many people, especially in this difficult period of health crisis – let us remember that almost one in two Frenchmen owns a pet. They are sometimes subjected to various forms of ill-treatment, all of which are equally reprehensible, as well as abandonment. We all have in mind the appalling images of the mutilation of equidae, but these inadmissible acts also affect certain non-domestic animals. Animal protection must be illustrated by concrete measures: in my commune of Bruay-la-Buissière, for example, shelter for stray cats has been set up. Protection must begin as soon as an animal is acquired – an act that has nothing to do with it. The awareness certificate for the first purchaser of a pet can be one of the answers, as can the strengthening of the identification of domestic animals. However, protection is in fact much broader: it must continue throughout the life of the animal, including its conditions of transport – sometimes appalling – or slaughter, which are not mentioned in the text at any time – I am thinking in particular of ritual slaughter without prior dizziness. The fight against animal abuse, without ideology but motivated by a genuine concern for effectiveness, must continue; Our compatriots are attached to it, and we will take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u93	I have before me three amendments, No 454 corrected, No 1 and No 393, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor to support Amendment No. 454 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u94	The certificate of knowledge seems to me a perfect idea to raise awareness of all the conditions necessary for the welfare of animals. You want to set it up for pet owners, but the detention of equidae deserves special treatment. Quite often, in fact, those who buy equidae are not the ones who hold them: they can be investors, or a grandmother who offers a horse to her grandson. By our amendment, we call for the certificate of knowledge to be extended to equidae holders, which must be distinguished from purchasers. It is essential that a person who becomes the guardian of an equine has the necessary knowledge to ensure his or her well-being.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u95	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u96	It is essential to empower people who wish to welcome a domestic animal: it is not a consumer good that can be rid of by fatigue. The number of abandoned animals – 100,000 per year – is unacceptable, and too many animals are abused every day. Some countries have established an animal welfare code and a detention permit. This draft law provides that every first purchaser shall sign a certificate of knowledge; It's a first step, but is that enough? My amendment is intended to supplement Article 1; It incorporates a provision of the bill that I tabled on 30 June 2020, namely the introduction of a "certificate of awareness and capacity, sanctioned by training in education, animal behaviour, care, housing or shelter suitable for the nature of the pet held, its physiological and ethological needs, its state of health and its degree of development, adaptation or domestication". If we want to guarantee the proper treatment of the animal by its owner, it seems essential to me to ensure that the latter's ability to accommodate it is ensured. The owner will then be sensitized and will have started a reflection on the defense of the animal cause. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The biologist and naturalist Charles Darwin stated that "like man, animals feel pleasure and pain, happiness and misfortune. Let us do everything, Minister, to ensure that everyone has the capacity to accommodate animals in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u97	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor to support Amendment No. 393.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u98	I am happy to defend this very important amendment by Mr Venteau – because, as has been said, the animal is not a toy – even if I would have preferred us to talk tonight about agricultural ill-being: let us remember that there is more than one suicide a day in this profession. I will nevertheless defend the animal cause, which is also of great importance. Our amendment reads as follows: "A certificate of awareness whose content and terms of issue are defined by order-in-council shall be put in place for any new purchaser of pet animals. In particular, it includes the carbon score of the pet animal acquired or adopted based on the life-cycle analysis method. » The acquisition or adoption of a pet must be fully considered, with full responsibility. It involves multiple commitments, costly in time and financial means: animal education, veterinary care, food... This is essentially the subject of the awareness certificate provided for in Article 1. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond this, this emotional act can have consequences for the environment, especially as a result of animal feeding. According to recent studies, the carnivores of dogs and cats would consume 20% of the meat produced worldwide and would mobilize 49 million hectares of useful agricultural area; they would represent a total annual emission of 106 million tonnes of CO. In a context of awareness of climate change, as natural resources become scarce and we have to fight hunger in the world, this amendment proposes to include the carbon score of the pet in the awareness certificate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u99	An animal carbon score? Seriously?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u100	I call Mr Loïc Dombreval, rapporteur-general on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Rapporteur on Chapter I, to give the Committee's opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u101	I shall start with Amendment No 454 as corrected by Mrs Leguille-Balloy, of which everyone knows that she devotes a great deal of work to equidae. You are proposing, dear colleague, to impose a certificate of knowledge on the holders of equidae rather than their owners – because, contrary to what most often applies to pets, the owners of equidae are not necessarily those who hold them. You are therefore expanding our initial idea, since I have tabled an amendment in committee to introduce a certificate of knowledge for equidae, beyond pets. You would like this principle to be extended to all current equidae holders. However, I wonder: what would be the consequences if a holder were not at the required level? I also find it a pity to have the owner bear full responsibility, while the owner also bears a liability when he acquires a horse. However, it seems to me appropriate to distinguish between the provisions concerning horses and pet animals. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House. Mr Perrut, you propose that the certificate of awareness and capacity be sanctioned by training. However, we want to avoid an overly complicated and costly system that would take time. The goal is that people who wish to acquire a pet can do so under the best possible conditions, attesting to their knowledge, but without having to spend too much time or money on it. We believe that the possession of a pet brings recognized benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u103	Moreover, if the seller is a professional but sales are no longer carried out online on generalist sites, as I propose, it is to be hoped that the buyer will be made aware of the topics you are referring to. My opinion on Amendment No 1 is therefore unfavourable. Finally, Amendment No 393 made me smile, even though I see that pets probably have a significant carbon score. Mr Damaisin, you say that on a global scale, cats and dogs consume 20% of the meat produced; However, recognize that they are fed with by-products. So your claim is somewhat exaggerated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u104	What is the Government's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u105	In my turn, I would like to welcome Mrs Leguille-Balloy's commitment to the equine sector. I will rely on the wisdom of the House with regard to its amendment No. 454 as corrected, even though I agree in substance with the objective. Legally, equidae are not pets. This amendment would therefore require a review of the codes attached to Article 1; We could do this on the occasion of the shuttle. In any case, the purpose you are aiming for is perfectly in line with the commitment of many of you. On the other hand, I have an unfavourable opinion on Amendment No 1 by Mr Perrut, for the same reasons as the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u106	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u107	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Vincent Ledoux also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens. and IDU-I]] Finally, I ask that Amendment No 393, which I see as an appeal amendment, be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Mr Damaisin's work on agricultural ill-being. Let us never forget: the subject of animal welfare must be distinguished from that of abuse. Abuse is condemned and fought, while animal welfare is accompanied. But the best way to accompany animal welfare is first to care about the farmer's well-being.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u109	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 42, 87 and 377. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u110	It aims to impose the knowledge certificate on each acquisition, and not only on the first acquisition. This repetition would have the merit of increasing the awareness of the purchaser. In addition, the variety of species requires that the certificate be adapted to each acquisition, whether free of charge or for consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u111	Mr Guillaume Chiche's amendment No 87 is being defended. I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u112	The wording of paragraph 3, which states that "any individual who acquires for the first time a pet or equidae shall sign a certificate of knowledge of the specific needs of the species", may create confusion and ambiguity as to the purpose of the certificate of awareness: it may suggest that the certificate will only be issued when the first pet is acquired from the owner's 18th birthday. I consider it necessary to impose this precondition on each acquisition, in order to further strengthen the awareness and responsibility of the masters. I therefore propose to delete the words "for the first time" in order to make it mandatory to sign a certificate of knowledge of the specific needs of the species when acquiring a pet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u113	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u114	We had found a balance solution that provided for the signature of a certificate for each purchase of an animal of a new species: for example, I must obtain a certificate if I buy a cat, and another certificate if I buy a dog. The only interest I would see in these amendments would be to link the certificates to the breed of the animal within the same species – if, for example, I acquire a very small dog, then a very big dog. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u116	I also rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u117	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u118	You speak of acquisition, in other words, if it is a gift of animal, it means in your mind that there will be no certificate. Yet there will be people who will have this document. What if cats, for example, have kittens and I acquire many of them? If I follow your logic, every time I acquire a new kitten, will I have to renew the process? Then you talk about the "specific needs" of the dog species, but are you sure that the teckel has exactly the same needs as the Saint Bernard or the Husky? Can we really reason on that basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u119	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u120	I would point out, on behalf of the IDU Group, with Sophie Auconia, Béatrice Descamps, Agnes Thill and the other members present tonight, that we will vote for these identical amendments. Imposing a knowledge certificate for each purchase puts the buyer in the face of his responsibilities. Indeed, as has been said several times since the beginning of the evening, acquiring a pet is not something common, because the animal is not an object. You don't buy an animal like you buy a bike.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u121	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u122	The certificate of knowledge was presented as a means of ensuring that the person who acquires an animal knows his responsibility. In my opinion, it is a commitment on honour to behave well with him. I therefore find it redundant to impose a certificate of knowledge on each acquisition, as we become aware of the issues and commitments that we make when we sign a first certificate. I am totally against this regular renewal because you see life with an animal as something linear: you acquire an animal, you take a formation, it dies. But many people have dog packs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u124	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I have two dogs and two cats; I'm not going to make a statement every time so we can check if I know my animals well and respect them well. We need to be consistent. We commit ourselves to respecting and knowing the animals, but we don't have to repeat it every time we acquire an animal, otherwise we won't get away with it and we're completely deviating Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u125	I see that requests to speak are increasing. I do not want to hold the debate from the outset, but I would ask you to follow the rule of two statements per amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u126	That would avoid sitting on Friday!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u127	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u128	I would point out that the number of animal abandonments is enormous – we are among the first at European level. We must therefore really fight this scourge. You just talked about packs. I would remind you that a sad tragedy has made us aware of animal violence. In fact, last week it was discovered that some 40 dogs were living in a deplorable state, some 20 of which had died. It is not because you have a pack that you are caring for animals. Repetition sets things out in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u129	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u130	Thank you, Madam President, for letting the debate take place. I will, of course, support the deletion of the concept of the first time for several reasons. First, we are creating a tool, the certificate of knowledge: it will be what will emerge from our debates in the National Assembly. After us, this subject will come back and it is likely that this certificate will enrich itself with new elements. It would be a good idea to present to someone who wishes to acquire an animal a document that will evolve over time, in particular through the action of the legislator. Secondly, as I said earlier, it is essential for our fellow citizens to rekindle their desire to adopt more and more animals – in this regard, I thought that I had seen a form of support from the minister's leadership. That was said a moment ago: we will not be able to imagine an immoderate increase in the number of pets in our country without measuring the consequences. The dam involved in issuing a certificate at each acquisition can help with some restraint and allow each one to perhaps be limited to three cats and two dogs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u131	I call Mr Vincent Ledoux to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u132	I, who am a borderer, wondered about the number of animal acquisitions from Belgium: all the veterinarians told me that it was very high. The national identification file shows that imports of domestic carnivorous animals have increased by more than 39% in five years, which is not insignificant. In total, over this period, about 176000 cats, dogs, ferrets were imported into France, half of the purchasers being private individuals. I ask the rapporteurs: what will be the treatment of these acquisitions? I thought it was useful to extend the requirement to sign a certificate of knowledge to acquisitions of animals abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u134	You're raising a real subject. In view of the large number of animal imports, I am in favour of your amendment on a personal basis, as the committee did not accept it. Having said that, we will have to give ourselves the means of control, which will be complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u136	On the substance, we can only support your amendment. But how is control organized to ensure that a person receives this certificate when he or she acquires an animal abroad? It seems to me difficult to adopt a measure which is known in advance that it cannot be applied...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u137	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u138	... because it requires European harmonisation of acquisition rules. This would make our common work more decredible. I believe that it is rather an appeal amendment that gives me as a directive within the Government to address this issue at the European level so that we can work on it. It is only at European level that this cannot be done. I cannot require my German or Belgian counterpart, as well as others, to provide for the signature, in the refuges of their country, of such a certificate that we consider relevant. On the other hand, I can defend it at European level. I propose that you withdraw your amendment and work on that. Otherwise, I fear that the French will say that we are voting for something inapplicable. I'm not sure it's finally very productive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u139	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u140	Minister, I certainly don't have the solution, but we have to think about it. It turns out that many veterinarians see these animals passing through. I am not saying that all animals go to French veterinarians, but it is not uncommon that when you live in France, you go to a French veterinarian instead. In other words, at some point, the presence of the animal purchased abroad will not escape the French administrative authorities, especially if you have to download a form to give the knowledge of the certificate. So we have every means to filter, spot, identify acquisitions abroad. It's not insurmountable. If we refer this matter to the European level, we will have discussions to finish, but that is a reality in the border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u141	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u142	Minister, you are asking a question which also arises for the certificate in France. As it stands, the device does not provide for the manner in which one will verify whether one is or is not first-acceding to the property of a domestic animal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u144	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ...or to whom it will be the responsibility. Will it be to the seller or the buyer on a declaratory basis? You say that the law would be inoperative if it were extended to acquisitions abroad, but it is also true for acquisitions on French soil as provided for in the text that we are preparing to vote. In the end, it is a chatty law that provides for a certificate whose signature will become a form of automatism: people will sign as they sign contracts whose general clauses they never read. Unfortunately, she will not have at all the pedagogical virtues that we are trying to make believe that she will have.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u145	Amendment No 278 by Mr François-Michel Lambert no longer has any purpose because of the adoption of Amendment No 454 as corrected. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u146	To fight against our sad record of abandonment of domestic animals, we can act on two levers: increase sanctions in the fight against the abuse of domestic animals and improve our policy of prevention by means of a certificate of awareness or knowledge for any acquisition of a pet. As such, my amendment is intended to clarify that this certificate should be transmitted to both animal and shelter facilities. It is an opportunity to hammer that a pet is not an object, that it is not a common consumer good, not a gift like any other, that it is a multi-year commitment that has a cost and requires a lot of affection. It is a reality that many people have not yet understood and that our debates must shed light with a great deal of humanity by reminding everyone of their rights and duties with regard to the purchase or adoption of a pet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u148	The signature of the certificate of knowledge at the time of acquisition will be required in all circumstances, in any place, whether the transaction takes place for consideration or free of charge. We have not specified this in the text, but it is clearly understood in the drafting which remains very broad. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u150	Same opinion. The text of the bill already satisfies your amendment. The certificate of knowledge will be required in shelters and pet stores.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u151	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u152	Adopting a pet is not annoid. It must be a thoughtful and responsible act. It's basically a commitment. It is in this capacity that this amendment, worked with the Salon-de-Provence SPA, proposes that this awareness certificate be also a certificate of commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u154	Thank you for this amendment. Of course, the content of this certificate, which will be defined by decree, must be sufficiently complete so that the future purchaser is well aware that the act that he is carrying out is also an act of commitment, and that he perceives all the consequences for life with his animal. Commitment is the idea of the device. Personally, I am in favour of your amendment, which the committee did not accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u156	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u157	On Amendment No 35, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u158	In keeping with the beginning of the debate, it aims to clarify that the certificate also concerns knowledge of the impact that domestic animals can produce on biodiversity. According to some studies, cats alone – domestic, wandering or harets – kill up to 1 billion birds and 3 billion animals in France every year. They also generate considerable needs for agricultural production – a very clear amendment has already been defended on the issue. They also produce a lot of waste: about 60 kilograms per household with a cat, and 400,000 tons of litter-related waste per year. All this is not neutral. It is therefore important that the certificate make it clear that the animal is part of an ecosystem with which it has a relationship that is not without impact. The domestic animal is not an object that is placed in the kitchen or in the living room; He's a living being. We all know the contributions of domestic animals of any kind, but they also have an impact on biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u160	Dear colleague, you have a problem with cats; Many of your amendments attest to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u161	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u162	Juju and Savon, the cats of Hubert Wulfranc, will hardly rejoice... For example, you are making a proposal on the sterilization of cats: indeed, it is important, and the certificate must make clear the importance of sterilization of cats and dogs and other new pets. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u164	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u165	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u166	[[Extended exclamations on various benches]] I have no problem with cats but with the impact of everything that is characterized by excess. I hope that, in the course of our discussions in the coming days, the mere fact that I mention it will not always be a problem for the rapporteur-general; If not, let him take a herbal tea to calm down. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the impact of cats is not neutral! It's up to us to say it! That is the meaning of this amendment that I maintain, because the rapporteur-general's answer is not up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u167	I put to the vote Amendment No 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u168	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 148 Number of votes cast 140 Absolute majority 71 For adoption 14 Against 126
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u169	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u170	Article 1 is important because it aims to combat the scourge of animal abandonment. In committee, it was completely rewritten; It is from this rewriting that the certificate of knowledge results. The rapporteur and the minister have just accepted Mr Zulesi's amendment on the concept of commitment, referring the content of the certificate to a decree. For my part, I consider that acquiring and possessing an animal is a legal and responsible act that entails obligations. Since we are here to legislate and define the scope of the knowledge certificate, I propose to make it clear explicitly that the decision to acquire a pet carries obligations. The amendment merely supplements the text; It does not alter the general philosophy – and for reason: we are not there to dispense a lesson of things or morals, but to anchor the principle of responsibility that must apply to anyone who decides to take care of an animal every day with love and attention. It seems to me necessary to refer to the obligation of care, food and identification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u172	These clarifications are useful, in fact, but how could the order made by the Minister not contain all the obligations that must be imposed on the purchaser of a pet? It goes without saying that they will be fully described in every detail – I hope so. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u174	Perhaps I misunderstood you, honourable Member: the summary of your amendment refers to the "legal obligations" imposed on the purchaser of a domestic animal, but the operative part of the amendment refers to "new obligations". It goes without saying that these will be included in the certificate – that is even the whole meaning of this document. It's about giving all the elements the buyer doesn't always think about when he has a cute kitten or a lovely puppy in front of him. He does not always realize that a common life of ten to fifteen years begins, and that an animal requires a great deal of attention, time and expenditure. All these new obligations, once again, will be included in the certificate. On the other hand, it is impossible to reveal the legal obligations relating to the possession of a pet; In doing so, the certificate would be killed because it would become thick like a book! No one is supposed to ignore the law; If only those sections of this bill that impose legal obligations on the purchasers of a domestic animal were to be mentioned, it was at least the thickness of the law itself that the certificate would take! That would hardly be pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u175	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u176	I understand our semantic divergence, but I believe that this text is indeed legal in scope. Again, we are not here to teach the French a lesson of things or philosophy, but to frame a practice and, if necessary, impose civil or even criminal liability. The amendment seeks to clarify that these obligations must be included in the certificate as a result of our work in committee; I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u177	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u178	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] I therefore fear that President Larcher will have to brandish a document of fifty-eight pages!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u179	Let him do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u180	Don't, of course, see any malice on my part... Rather, let us keep it to a document that everyone is likely to read and that they will be able to read, rather than return all applicable legal provisions. No one would read the certificate anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u181	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u182	This amendment proposed by Mr Boucard aims to supplement the certificate of knowledge of the specific needs of the species by including the penalties and penalties incurred by persons guilty of acts of cruelty and abuse of an animal, so that any new purchaser is prevented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u184	Favourable opinion. This amendment responds in part to the question raised in the previous amendment of the criminal penalties for ill-treatment, cruelty or abandonment. Buyers are not always aware of the requirements of the animal they are about to receive. Recall that owners of an unidentified cat or dog are liable to a fourth class contravention and a fine of 750 euros; Many French people do not know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u186	Unfavorable opinion. The certificate will state in full letter and in the most explicit way that abuse can result in financial and criminal penalties, including imprisonment. On the other hand, if making these rules visible is to copy the penal code, I take the bet that the certificate will no longer serve anything! To list the penalties incurred by the perpetrators of acts of cruelty or serious abuse of an animal would be to copy the Penal Code. It should be noted that some amendments refer to aggravating circumstances and that, in addition, several codes are invoked on the basis of the abuses committed. A very clear warning must be drawn up on the possibility of criminal sanctions; It is better than to quote in the annex the criminal code itself in very small characters, for no one will read it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u187	But it doesn't eat bread...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u188	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u189	It is not a question of copying the penal code, minister, but simply of informing those who are likely to commit wrongdoing of the consequences of their actions, indicating the penalties they incur – and often unknown.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u190	That is not what is written in your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u191	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u192	[[Smile. – Mr. Philippe Chalumeau applauds]] It seems to me that the spirit behind the writing of this article is being misguided. The road code is not copied to the driver's license – otherwise we should all travel with a briefcase to transport it! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On this basis, the certificate could just as well include everything that concerns the education and feeding of the animal – in short, everything that is learned during the course of the proposed training. This document is not intended to recall everything that has been learned; it is only a certificate attesting that the training has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u193	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u194	This amendment proposed by Mr Stéphane Viry aims to raise awareness among new purchasers by making the issue of the certificate of knowledge conditional on the follow-up of an internship so that they become aware of the food and health needs of animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u196	Unfavorable. This would result in a cost and constraint that could deter future owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u197	That's the goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u199	Same opinion. One thing is to tell the French that they will be sensitized when acquiring a pet; the imposition of a prior internship is another. I even see the possibility that this provision may be deemed to be a liberticide because it hinders the possibility of acting – see no malice in these remarks. Let's find a middle man, and let's keep it right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u200	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u201	Mr Minister, I do not necessarily share everything that is proposed by my group, but I believe that some of my colleagues have believed in the will of the majority to resolve the problem of animal abuse. So they try to find ways to give a certain consistency to this famous certificate. [[Smile]] But I also hear the arguments against it. I imagine a scene in which you are offered a goldfish accompanied by a penal code, the second one being bigger than the first one; This may make things a little complicated, unless you end up tattooing barcodes on hamsters. Nevertheless, Minister, we must be careful not to create a certificate that is merely symbolic. The piece of paper you propose to sign is a bit like going to the bank to open an account and telling us that the legislator has set up a whole bunch of forms to be initialled. Someone was referring earlier to the driver's licence, but the person who obtained it was first made aware of the road code: when you hold it, you took courses. On the other hand, the certificate of knowledge referred to here very much resembles a kind of charter that is only a piece of symbolic paper that people risk signing without giving it any importance. How do you intend to give consistency to this "knowledge"? Behind the arguments put forward, the question is asked. To move forward in the debate, it would therefore be interesting for you to think about how to avoid the device being simply an administrative formality and additional paperwork – its carbon score would not be good and, in a few years, you may find yourself facing the protests of your ecologist friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u203	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u204	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Viry's amendment seems to me to be of common sense, and I am not far from sharing Mr Aubert's argument. Like what! More seriously, the rapporteur-general, first of all, there is no indication in this amendment that the traineeship will be at the expense of the purchasers. Then, when you ask yourself the question of acquiring an animal, you start most of the time by going to bookstore to buy books and document yourself: it costs money, and you thus demonstrate your willingness to know how to do it; Indeed, taking care of an animal in good conditions, respecting its balance, its development and its way of life, it is not that simple. Therefore, the introduction of compulsory training does not seem to me to be something totally irresponsible or unrealistic. National education...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u205	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u206	... trains well on the driver's license. She delivers a diploma to drive a scooter; Why can't we imagine she's training to acquire an animal?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u207	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor to support Amendments Nos 64 and 63, as corrected, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u208	My colleague Stéphane Claireaux, who has good reason to be absent, is the first signatory. Amendment No 64, as corrected, is intended to insert after paragraph 3 of Article 1e (r) a paragraph which reads: "Persons convicted of acts of ill-treatment or animal cruelty must undergo an awareness-raising course on animal protection. In the overseas communities governed by article 74 of the Constitution, animal protection associations may be empowered by order of the representative of the State to organize animal protection awareness courses and issue the relevant awareness certificate. » Animal abuse associations warn that such acts are still part of a poor understanding of animal sensitivity. Persons convicted of such acts of ill-treatment or cruelty should therefore be given special attention and should be made aware of them as a matter of priority. Only a true understanding of animal sensitivity would prevent the recurrence of animal abuse. I come to Amendment No 63, as corrected. In the Overseas Territories, animal protection associations are known to be the main interlocutors of local authorities in the fight against animal abuse. They have experience in raising awareness among neo-adopters and regularly engage in school-based interventions. They are therefore the local actors most able to organise and issue animal protection awareness certificates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u209	What is the committee's opinion on the two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u210	Unfavorable opinion. You are proposing a scheme that seems unique to the overseas communities, but I do not understand why. In addition, animal protection associations already carry out awareness-raising work and will participate in the implementation of knowledge certificates when they hand over an animal to a purchaser. You also require an internship to obtain the certificate, which is not our wish; It is true that this could be interesting for animal protection associations, but that is not what we want. Finally, article 9 of the bill provides that such an awareness-raising course should be followed in place of a sentence, which seems more interesting to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u211	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u212	By creating a certificate of knowledge, resulting from the work of the commission, we produce law. It is obvious that by this we are looking for a path. Mr. Aubert said that a moment ago: there are two ways of doing things. The first one provides a lot of clarification, perhaps too much; This is obviously not the way you prefer. The second, yours, is more about setting principles and highlighting symbols. We believe that a number of elements should still be specified in order to give this certificate of knowledge a scope, content and, above all, a true readability. To ensure its effectiveness, which I believe is essential, the person who owns an animal must become aware of his or her obligation and commitment on the same day that he or she becomes the owner. The purpose of this amendment is thus to lay down a simple rule, a clarification that we believe is useful so that no one seeks to undo himself afterwards: the certificate of knowledge must be issued on the day the animal is acquired and not after, because this "after" might never happen. It seems to us that the very useful mention of a certificate of knowledge must be specified by our legislative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u214	My opinion is different, Mr. Member; I prefer to leave to the decree the task of foreseeing the actual terms of the certificate. Take, for example, a future owner who goes to the place of acquisition; he exchanges with the assignor, observes the animal, reserves it and then waits a little before returning, the time the animal is weaned; he then acquires it effectively. This could be the procedure for someone wishing to acquire a pet in the future. Unfavorable notice, to leave a period of reflection to the buyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u215	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u216	It aims to make it possible to issue the knowledge certificate by digital means. At a time when digital and ecology are priorities at the centre of all our debates and where dematerialization exists everywhere, you are proposed to allow the certificate to be made available via an online platform or by e-mail. If so, this does not prevent the purchaser from being physically present to sign, as is the case with many administrative or legal acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u217	The carbon score will be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u219	For my part, I prefer that the purchaser be physically present and that the paper document be read and signed with the assignor. I think it is important to foresee a self-handling that will have an important material and symbolic value. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u221	I think that it is possible to do so by dematerialised means. To take the example given by the rapporteur-general, the seller and the new buyer could sign the certificate together, online, in a dematerialised way; I have no problem with this procedure. But this element is one of those which will be defined in the decree provided for in Article 1: the definition of the terms of the certificate falls within the regulatory level. It happens that I will sign the decree; I am in favour of the possibility of dematerialization. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u222	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u223	I remember what the minister said right now in the House: he said that he would allow the certificate to be delivered digitally. On the other hand, the rapporteur-general, I do not understand your position on this subject, in digital time. Frankly, I don't understand her at all! I am not going back to the substance because the minister said that he would accept my amendment by regulation, but I cannot understand that today, for an act such as this one, the digital solution is being denied. This is in turn all that has been done for several years in all contractual relations between the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u224	It's scalded by AllAntiCovid!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u225	He's not retired, Mr. Viry?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u226	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u227	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u228	We're tinkering, but it's because we don't know who's doing what for who! It will be known when the decree is published; When that is the case, we will have a slightly more precise idea of the subject matter to which this certificate of knowledge will be made. For my part, I agree with the rapporteur-general: I imagine, Mr Minister, that this is not a document that will be dealt with digitally. The certificate will have to be issued following direct contact with the head of the approved shelter, with the head of the animal protection company that will be given to his new owner, and possibly with the veterinary officer – I see you protesting, Mr Lescure, but will a veterinarian not have the right to issue a certificate of knowledge?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u229	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u230	We therefore need clarification on things that we do not know at the moment. In any case, the issue of such a document must also be conditioned on the benevolence of the future master, in order to apprehend the acquisition or adoption at best; This necessarily excludes the dematerialized path.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u231	On Article 1, a request for a public vote is being submitted to the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Guillaume Larrivé's editorial amendment No. 54 was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u232	The rapporteur-general's precise amendment No 164 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u233	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u234	Since the idea is to empower buyers and make them aware of the possession of a domestic animal to avoid compulsive purchases and thus abandonments, I propose that you do as some countries already do in Europe and around the world by going so far as to create a detention permit. Our debates show that the certificate of knowledge that you propose to us lies at the middle of what we want to do: it does not fully meet the objective that we all share. Let us therefore move forward and go to the detention permit; a decree will define the terms of the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u236	For reasons already mentioned on several occasions, I do not wish to create a detention permit that would require those who would spend time and money on it, while causing complexity and sometimes fear. The acquisition of an animal must be...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u237	Enlightened!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u238	... informed and subordinated to obtaining a certificate of knowledge but not to a holding permit that could discourage future purchasers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u239	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u241	My opinion is also unfavorable, but I want to make it clear that we are not in the symbol, contrary to what some might have said a few moments ago, and that we are trying to fix the cursor by keeping the right balance. What are we talking about? From 100,000 dog and cat abandonments to some 800,000 acquisitions, which makes a proportion of one in eight. In other words, the phenomenon does not affect everyone, since the French hold between 20 and 30 million pets. [["Yes! On several benches. – Smile]] [[Smile]] We must fight the unacceptable behaviour of some, without forcing the vast majority of animal owners. Let us take an example that you know well, that of Hubert Wulfranc. Are we going to give him a detention permit for the two cats he told us about? In that case, I would rely on the wisdom of this assembly! At one point, you have to stop and place the cursor in the right place. We are going to create a certificate to raise awareness, but we are not going to ask all French people who own a dog or cat to pass a detention permit. If we did, people would look at us with weird eyes in many countryside. For my part, I am not sure to be very well received in my Normandy if I announced that all those who have an animal would have to pass a permit. Anyway, I wouldn't say the idea came from me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u242	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u243	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 128 Number of votes cast 127 Absolute majority 64 For adoption 127 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u244	We come to a series of amendments with an additional article after Article 1. I call Mrs Anissa Khedher to support Amendment No. 359.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u245	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure the future of an animal in the event that the owner dies or is prevented, as a result of hospitalization, imprisonment or other life event that may lead to a temporary or permanent absence. As a nurse health executive, I have often faced situations where patients were worried about their health, but also about their pet that they had left alone at home. I have even been informed only after several days of the presence in a patient of an animal that was not being cared for. In the face of these difficult or even abusive situations, it is important to clarify the law, forcing each owner to make arrangements for the future of his animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u247	Since you are asking that any owner provide for a custody solution, I would like to refer you to the future protection mandate for the animal, which I will propose a little later in our discussions. This mandate will cover not only the death of the owner but any disability such as an EHPAD placement. That is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u249	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u250	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u251	In our functions, I believe it is important to maintain an unbroken capacity for indignation. But we are all outraged by a situation where the animal-goods is still too often the rule. That is why we propose to impose a minimum quota of dogs and cats from refuges on animal farms. The idea is to make these two worlds better coexist, animalry and refuge, trade and solidarity, by making them join together to better protect our domestic animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u253	The amendment tends to oblige petries to make boxes available for dogs and cats from refuges. Is it for a fee or for free? Under what conditions will these animals be welcomed? Personally, I am against selling in a pet store, a fortiori for animals that have suffered trauma in the past. This amendment refers to other forthcoming amendments on the issue of animal feed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u255	For reasons different from those of the rapporteur-general, I too am against this amendment. Compare the number of animals and gardens in our territories to that of shelters? Imagine that we unilaterally ask that 30% of the animals in the entire animal and garden network come from a refuge, while there are only a few refuges in some departments! Different percentages of animals would then be required to adapt to territorial realities. You see the system! For my part, I really don't feel it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u256	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u257	The idea was not to set a percentage, to create a huge constraint. It was a matter of drawing up a principle and bringing this world closer to animal production and trade to that of refuge and solidarity, but, in view of the arguments put forward, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u258	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u259	We call for the creation of a certification for all pet sellers and sellers. We note that the advice given to buyers, particularly with regard to the size of cages necessary for the welfare of different animals, is sometimes inadequate. This mandatory certification would ensure good information for buyers, thus avoiding unnecessary suffering for animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u261	These trainings already exist and give rise to the issuance of the CCAD, the certificate of capacity intended to carry out activities related to pet animals of domestic species, which must be available to sellers in the animal industry. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u263	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u264	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u265	The aim is to introduce mandatory minimum dimensions for cages and parks sold to purchasers of animals, taking into account the species and the number of individuals destined to live there, as is the case in other countries such as Switzerland. This would make it quite easy to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u267	This type of provision is also of a regulatory nature. An order of 3 April 2014 lays down the health and animal protection rules to be met by activities related to pet animals. Sellers must master the needs of each species, which refers to their formation, your previous amendment and the CCAD. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u269	Same opinion. I can give you the order if you want, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u270	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u271	I hear your answers to my two previous amendments. I know very well that orders exist, but the problem is that the information given in a pet store is lacking: there is no mention of the minimum size of cages depending on the number and species of animals for which they are intended. The text you are talking about may exist, but it is not applied. Amendment No 190 seeks to define, for the whole of the territory, a minimum compulsory area for the holding of animals living in a pet store before they are sold. When we go to pet stores, we find that many animals sometimes coexist in very small spaces, in cages where they obviously do not have the space to develop harmoniously. It is therefore necessary to define, for each species, a minimum holding area in the petries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u273	I am sorry, Mr. Lachaud, but I will repeat what I have just said about the 2014 Ministerial Order. If animal farms do not apply the regulations, it must be said, so that they are controlled and recover from squares. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u275	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u276	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 378.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u277	In order for the fight against animal abuse not to be a smokescreen but a reality, the means must be put in place to search for and find offences more actively and more easily. Article 2 strengthens the capacity for intervention, involving municipal police officers and rural guards, which obviously goes in the right direction. Since any improvement can also be improved, I propose that you involve the field agents of OFB, the French Biodiversity Office. Since its inception on 1 January 2020, the OFB has limited its scope of action to wildlife. There is no doubt, however, that the Agency's field and proximity agents have every right, given the specific nature of their missions and knowledge, to be concerned by the extension of the list of professionals acting under Article L. 212-13 of the Rural Code and maritime fisheries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u279	As you pointed out, the addition of municipal police officers and rural guards to the number of agents capable of identifying the animal is already an important contribution of the bill. To meet your request, the missions of OFB officers, currently focused on wild fauna and flora, would have to be modified. Such a development is not foreseen. It would require the necessary financial resources in order to increase the number of staff, while the number of staff is already severely constrained. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u280	That's why they're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u281	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u282	It is a question of adding to the municipal police officers and the rural guards who have just been mentioned, the sworn private guards. I am thinking in particular of the forest guards, fishery guards and hunters, who are more than 30,000, perhaps even 40,000 in France. They have a special look at the environment and must also be mobilised. We cannot miss out on these means already available, whose competition would not impose any increase in costs for the communities. Indeed, it is simply a matter of entrusting them with new tasks, consistent with those that most of them already assume.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u284	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment does not make it clear who the sworn guards are. I don't know who you're talking about. In any case, public service missions cannot be entrusted to mere security guards recruited under private contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u285	But no, they're not private contracts!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u287	Same opinion. I can see who you're talking about, but I think everyone has a role to play. I'm not sure that the job of fishing guards, forest guards or game guards will have to get them to control the cats' tattoo tomorrow. In fact, even if sanctions are reinforced in the event of a lack of identification of the animal, in the case of cats, or of abuse, we must not forget the heart of the profession. The list of personnel who will be able to carry out these checks by including municipal police officers and rural guards is already being greatly expanded, but I do not think that we should go beyond that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u288	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u289	Mr General, I should like to point out that sworn guards are often people mobilized by public authorities or structures – to monitor a public pond or wood – paid by the community. While some of them serve private interests, the vast majority serve public interests. That's for their place and their role. There are 30,000 in France; They are therefore not invisible, they are a reality of the daily life of these territories which are sometimes forgotten, but which make France's charm. Minister, it is a whole chain of actors on the ground that needs to be mobilised, especially those of them who are in contact with the population. When a special guard used to monitor a wood crosses an animal, why not allow it to participate in the objective pursued by Article 2? This clarification would make it possible to go as far as possible in order to respect the will of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u290	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u291	Although I have expressed doubts as to the efficiency of the arrangements you are planning under section 1 of the bill, which are designed to make everyone responsible for the possession of a domestic animal, I agree with the idea that this responsibility is first and foremost individual. On the other hand, the provision of Article 3 places this responsibility on the collective, in particular on the local community, by imposing a refuge or impoundment everywhere to accommodate animals that individuals would abandon because they were tired of doing so. By giving the impression that there are everywhere receptacles for abandoned animals, we go totally against the objective of the text: to combat abuse and abandonment. Above all, I want to ask national representation about the feasibility of this provision. Do we realize that we are writing a text that requires every municipality, every EPCI – a public institution for intercommunal cooperation – in France, to have a refuge or a feedstock for animals? This is absolutely impossible, both materially and humanly, because when you set up such a service, you need staff to take care of the animals. I agree with the idea of densifying the network and giving more support to the actors who deal with it very well, because it is their job; But of grace, let us not make this mistake that the local elected officials would not forgive us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u292	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u293	I do not want to paraphrase Mr. Viala, but it is true that while a municipality could so far take advantage of the service of an impound established in the territory of another, with the agreement of the latter, Article 3 now makes it compulsory for each municipality or EPCI to "have a impound or a refuge suitable for the reception and custody [...] of dogs and cats found wandering". We share the legitimate objective of national coverage, but the question of means – the new obligation will require time and will impose operating costs – must be asked. Will the new provisions prevent the possible delegation of the management of the impound, as is done today, to a private body – an animal protection association or a specialised company? In addition, by providing that the municipality must have either an impound or a refuge, the text does not support legal clarification. Today, when the management of the impound is delegated and the refuge and impoundment share the same site, the two activities and their premises must be separated: the activity of the refuge is not taken over by the commune, but by the animal protection association. What will happen after the bill is passed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u294	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 390 to delete Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u295	In line with what I have just said, I believe that the article is not on the road and that we must either rework the provision in question in the framework of the parliamentary shuttle to make it bearable for the communities, communes and EPCI, which are the targets, or simply remove it. As it stands, it will be inapplicable. I would like to take this opportunity, Minister, to ask you what penalties will be imposed on local elected officials who will not have the means to comply with the law, if a third party denounces the fact that the commune does not have a refuge or an impound in which they could deposit the animals they no longer want to take care of.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u297	As a former mayor, I fully share your concern about the constraint on local and regional authorities. But the article, as drafted, gives the EPCI the possibility, until now reserved for the municipalities, of creating these reception structures, which greatly expands the potential for networking. Moreover, the article enshrines what already exists without being regulated by law: the convention between the municipality and a refuge – and not necessarily an impound. So we are simplifying things, even if the new provisions obviously have a cost. After a period of time, a denser mesh of shelters or impoundments will be obtained, which will make it possible to better accommodate the animals. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u299	Same opinion. I'm very concerned about what you're saying, Mr. Viala, Mr. Wulfranc. The text amends Article L. 211-24 of the Rural and Maritime Code, which states today: "Each commune must have either a communal impound suitable for the reception and custody of dogs and cats found wandering or in a state of divagation until the expiry of the time limits laid down in Articles L. 211-25 and L. 211-26, or the service of an impound established in the territory of another commune, with the agreement of that commune. With the new wording proposed in Article 3, the Commission wished to expand these provisions by specifying that it could be an impoundment or a refuge – it was already possible, but not clearly stated – and by giving the possibility of organizing things at the level of the EPCI. But the obligation in question already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u300	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u301	Minister, in my department of Aveyron – the one I know best and which, it seems, you also know – most EPCIs are human in size. Composed of ten or fifteen communes, they cover very large areas, but bring together small populations according to the national average. These EPCIs carry out structural projects and bear very heavy burdens, but at present they are far from having this type of establishment, each on their territory. This does not mean that the Aveyron elected officials do not care about the animals, but the mutualization takes place on a much wider scale. Impose the EPCI link in the law – although I note that it is no longer just the communes – which does not correspond to anything in this area and which will force the organisation on the ground enormously – seems to me to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u302	But that's already the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u303	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u304	I have heard the explanations of the rapporteur-general and of the minister, and I will finally support the article, stressing, however, that the question of means arises for small municipalities and EPCIs, some of which, Mr Viala has just pointed out, may be in delicate configurations to assume the management of such a public service mission. I count on your sagacity to have a particular interest in this issue of means, as it will determine the effectiveness of the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u305	I give the floor exceptionally to a third speaker, Mr Julien Aubert, whom I invite to be brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u306	Thank you, Madam President, for this exceptional benefit. It would have been interesting to have a real numerical analysis of the impact of the measure; But let's move on to that point. In terms of organisation, it seemed to me that the obligation to have an impound or the services of an impound already existed. What we are going to do is to be able to delegate the management of the impound to another commune, in favour of a delegation to the intercommunality. Today, the network exists. Take several communes, say three or four, that have arranged for the impound to be installed in the territory of one of them. The area and capacity of this impoundment are therefore adapted to a stock of animals corresponding to the four communes. If these municipalities are not part of the same EPCI, under Article 3, one or two of them will no longer be able to entrust their animals to this common impound, but will have to send them to the new impound, that of the EPCI. Therefore, there is a risk of a situation where the EPCI will have to build a space adapted to the new flow, while the old impound will become too large in relation to the new needs. That is why I would have found it smarter to allow, not only the delegation to the EPCI, but also a grouping of municipalities which are not necessarily part of the same EPCI but which are within a coherent geographical scope. As you know, some communes, yet touch-and-touch, do not belong to the same EPCI for political reasons, for example. The choice would seem more open to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u307	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u308	I think there's a misunderstanding about the minister's words. If it is really a question of calling into question the agreements between municipalities, I will vote for the deletion of the article. Of course, all municipalities now have an obligation, but in a rural department, for example, which has three to four animal impoundments and some 20 EPCIs, they necessarily fulfil this obligation by means of agreements signed on a much wider scale than the EPCI. And it works very well. If you terminate these agreements, you will ask communities to take over missions that represent astronomical sums.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u309	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u310	I therefore ask the minister for clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u311	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u312	I just read the article. The opening logic of the rapporteur-general is good. The possibility for mayors to use an agreement outside the EPCI to which their commune belongs should remain open. I do not know if future amendments provide for such a provision, but that is what we must aim for. Care must be taken not to question what exists or to freeze things. Instead, we propose an enlargement: what is possible for a municipality – the fact of having the service of an impound established in the territory of another municipality, with the agreement of that municipality – should be possible for an EPCI. If none of the amendments already tabled do so – forgive me for not having been able to verify this – it would be desirable for an amendment to be drafted to supplement the rapporteur-general's proposal. This would completely solve the legal problem since it would not be mandatory to create a specific framework while further strengthening the territorial grid, in line with the objective of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u313	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u314	For the sake of co-construction, I take into consideration and make my own remarks that I have heard. The willingness to extend this possibility to the EPCI is good. The text produced by the committee says this very clearly because it mentions "each municipality or, when exercising that competence in place of that municipality, each public institution for intercommunal cooperation with its own taxation". It seems to me that this passage is suitable for everyone. On the other hand, and you are right on this point, Mr Aubert, there is a missing mention that was previously included in Article L. 211-24: the fact that the municipality can have "the service of an impound established in the territory of another municipality, with the agreement of that municipality. » Of course, the article should not be deleted, but we can either amend Amendment No 390 or — perhaps it is preferable — amend Amendment No 53, to come, by Mr Guillaume Larrivé, who, if he is not drafted exactly in these terms, is the one who is closest to it, since he aims to supplement the article as follows: "This impoundment or refuge can be mutualised with another municipality or other public institution of inter-municipal cooperation with own taxation, having the competence. The idea of sharing an impound with another municipality is roughly equivalent to that of the service of a impound established in the territory of another municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u315	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u316	I shall therefore propose to you a favourable opinion on Amendment No 53 unless the one we are considering is under-amended in the sense I have just mentioned, while committing myself to reworking it during the shuttle so as to be sure to arrive at a very clear wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u317	I call Mr Guillaume Larrivé to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u318	It is purely editorial. However, since the minister has very kindly presented my amendment No. 53, I will do so in my turn. This very technical and pragmatic amendment comes from a field experience in my constituency. There are three communities of municipalities with a mixed union that allows them to share the impound. I can't imagine for a second that we want to ask them to break their impound to build two more next door, small. It is therefore an amendment of precision that says that common sense mutualizations, as you have mentioned, are possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u320	I am in favour of Amendment No 207 on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u321	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u322	The wording of article 3, paragraph 3, suggests that "refugee" and "furnace" are interchangeable. I would like to recall that the shelter is a private structure that can proceed with the adoption while the impound is a public service of withdrawal from the highway and guard. While the two structures may have partially identical missions in their purpose, their nature and purpose are uniquely different. As things stand, a community does not seem to be able to have a shelter, since it cannot be at the initiative of its creation or carry out its ordinary missions. There is clearly a lack of clarity in the original text which I propose to clarify.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u324	The mayor has the freedom to manage impoundments and shelters under different legal statutes, under direct control or by public service delegation, and in both cases by agreement. Your amendment seems to me to be more confusing than anything else. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u325	Amendment No 70 by Mr Stéphane Viry is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u326	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u327	The article must be consistent with the primary function of the impounds. It provides, as is also the case under the current rural and maritime fisheries code, that impoundments take care of dogs and cats. But we know very well that they take care of the other wandering animals. In an impound you will not only find dogs and cats, but also, quite often, paradoxically, rabbits, as well as other pets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u329	Your amendment is intended to include in the article that the function of impounds extends to the care, among other things, of new pets. But the impoundments have enough to do, they are sometimes overburdened. In addition, their equipment is not at all suitable for new pet animals that are small. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u330	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u331	Same opinion. Think of the debate we have just had. By your amendment, you ask the municipalities to also welcome redfish, canaries or hamsters. This is to go a little further in defining the role of municipally managed shelters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u332	I've rarely seen a wandering goldfish!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u333	[[Smile]] It happens! Think of Nemo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u334	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u335	Let the minister already explain to me how a goldfish can be wandering and therefore picked up to be brought into a impound... I'm left with the land animals. What should the actors involved, be they rural guards or public service employees, do when they find a rabbit, hamster or other pet? What then happens to these animals? Isn't there a legal vacuum here? If, for example, these actors found a rabbit, they could explain that the law does not oblige them to bring it back to a dump. Similarly, in an impound, one could also refuse to collect this animal by explaining that such a place is authorized by law only to take care of dogs and cats. What do they do with that rabbit? Will they cook it? You have to be very clear. By adding "animals" in the article, everything will be put in place correctly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u336	I have before me two amendments, Nos 53 and 149, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 149 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 499. Amendment No 53 by Mr Guillaume Larrivé, which has already been tabled, and Amendment No 149 by Mr Ian Boucard are being defended. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u337	The problem with this article is that it suggests that an additional mesh will be created which will in fact impose additional expenses on the IEPs if it is impossible for the municipality to avoid this obligation. Our colleague Jerretie has explained that a municipality could at present escape it by entering into an agreement with a neighbouring municipality which has a refuge but is not part of the same EPCI. Since it is almost a right, there is no point in drafting an article to clarify that an agreement between EPCI also avoids this obligation. This new article will not change the current situation. Since we want to be effective and avoid overly chatty laws, let's prove it right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u339	Favourable opinion on Amendment No 53, but unfavourable on Amendment No 149 and on Subamendment No 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u341	The Government is against Amendment No. 149 and Subamendment No. 499. He was in favour of Amendment No 53 by Mr Larrivé, committing himself to a rewrite during the shuttle. I would point out to Mr Dive that the article differs from the existing law, since it is a question of impoundment or refuge – a legal clarification that has its interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u342	You're smiling at it yourself, Minister! I see him under your mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u343	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u344	As I understand it, article 3 provides a nuance by mentioning the refuge. This clarification is in the right direction, and I agree with it. On the other hand, I repeat my argument, Minister, by giving you this time an example, which may be more telling: in Puy-de-Dôme, which has just under 470 communes, there is an animal impoundment and two refuges. This means that more than 460 communes that do not have such places enter into agreements with the big impoundment. This kind of deal has to go on. The word'mutualisation' in Amendment No 53, which you have used, does not seem to me to be the right word because it refers to a very specific reality in the law of local authorities, it is not equivalent to 'conventionalisation'. I suggest that during the shuttle we write an article that holds the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u345	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u346	I have exactly the same opinion as Mrs Pires Beaune. Care must be taken to maintain the agreements allowing each municipality or EPCI to entrust these tasks to the establishment of their choice, even if it is located outside their perimeter. The details that will be made during the shuttle will be the subject of the greatest vigilance on our part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u347	Mine too, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u348	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-26-O1137.u349	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the implementation of the Franco-German projects set up by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; Further discussion of the bill to strengthen the fight against animal abuse. The meeting is adjourned.
