ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u1	Pursuant to articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, I declare open the special session convened by decree of the President of the Republic of 1 September 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u2	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u3	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u4	My question is for the Prime Minister. I would like to associate my colleague Michel Herbillon, President of the Indo-Pacific Information Mission, and, of course, the elected representatives of the English Channel. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] In 2016, we were talking about the contract of the century with Australia. Today, it is the confrontation of the century, a slap, a diplomatic, economic and industrial Trafalgar. I am naturally alongside Naval Group, the 650 employees involved, many in the English Channel, my department, in Cherbourg, in the north of Cotentin, alongside families and subcontractors. They didn't fail, they didn't fail in our trust. National solidarity must play, the State must be present; Prime Minister, you must commit yourself to it. Rarely will a supposed ally have so little respected a commitment, which is more to the benefit of other so-called historical allies. This contract was an essential part of France's policy in the Indo-Pacific zone. We're now naked. What about our strategy, our alliances, our defence industries? We are isolated, marginalized, despite our presence in the area, particularly in New Caledonia. What about our million and a half citizens, our millions of square kilometres of exclusive economic zone (EEZ)? What about our sovereignty? And in terms of the proliferation of atomic weapons, it's a champion! The direct causes – a secret agreement, an Australian lashing and a form of duplicity – are known, but how could the Government be so deaf to the background noises surrounding this contract in recent years? The three countries have been working for eighteen months on this secret agreement and our intelligence services would not have seen anything, would they not have heard anything? The international press has been talking about it for months, reacting to the signals sent, and you wouldn't have seen anything, would you? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] So what has been the political support for this contract in recent years? You have to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u5	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u6	You're absolutely right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u7	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u8	... it is much more than a breach of an industrial contract, much more than a challenge to an arms contract between France and Australia: it is a breach of trust between allies and a triple strategic turning point for us Europeans. The essence of your question is what led to this staggering result of the September 15th denunciation of the programme in which we have been engaged since 2014. Indeed, it was in 2014 that discussions began between Australia and France on an ambitious programme of classic ocean-class submarines. The context was already that of China's rapid rise in power. The request was for a submarine capable of going far with conventional propulsion. It was intended to enable Australia, I stress, to equip itself with sovereign equipment. If we were selected in 2016, it is because we responded perfectly to this request. The proposed submarine was of the Barracuda type, with the only difference that it would not be nuclear powered. It was to be produced in Australia: it was Australian steel that was to be used to make an Australian hull, in an Australian shipyard, with Australian employees. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] We learned about the denunciation of the contract a few hours before its public announcement. China's rise in power is not new; What is at stake is nuclear propulsion, which was not asked of us, and what is problematic is sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] On the particular question of Cherbourg, I would first like to point out to you that the Prime Minister has had contact with the mayor of the city and that he will have more. I will be able to complete my answer on the other questions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u9	That or nothing, it's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u10	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u11	21 September is the International Day of Peace, and this peace is seriously threatened. The unilateral decision of the US administration to sell nuclear-powered submarines to Australia threatens peace in the Indo-Pacific zone. This is an extremely serious decision. It is the choice of a dangerous military escalation in this area and in the China Sea. It is also contemptuous for France and the European Union. France is a major power of the Pacific, with a huge maritime area...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u13	...and more than 1.5 million citizens live there. Let us not forget Polynesia or New Caledonia. Yes, it is contemptuous for France, the historical ally of the United States. The United States has no allies, it's America First, and they just told us. When will we finally have the lucidity to tell us that, in this war against China, we will always lose in every case? This decision is also extremely dangerous because for the first time a nuclear power, the United States, transfers enriched uranium technology to another state, thus creating a precedent. What will we say tomorrow if China or Russia do the same? And then, of course, it's the concern for all the employees of Naval Group and the companies working on this site. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Christian Hutin also applauds]] Prime Minister, our answer must be clear. France must regain its independence in order to promote the voice of peace and ensure respect for international law. That is why I solemnly ask the President of the Republic to announce from now on the withdrawal of our country from the NATO military command that we reinstated in 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u14	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u15	We are indeed an Indo-Pacific nation and, if we are present in the region, it is primarily because we have interests in it. We have nearly 2 million citizens and 93% of our EEZ. This fully justifies not only our presence, but also our desire to play a role in it. We are also present in the Indo-Pacific region because we believe that beyond the territories we have there, for the riparian countries, the rise in power of China, its increasing aggressiveness are causing great difficulties and that we must be able to offer an alternative solution to this aggression. Finally, we are present in Indo-Pacific because we do not want the voice of France and Europe to be ignored. There is a desire on the part of the United States to rise in power in escalation, confrontation with China. This confrontation could – of course I am not predicting it – have a military dimension. Is that what we want for peace and international relations in this important region of the world, where nearly 60% of the world's GDP goes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u16	What are we doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u17	Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u18	So what do we do? First of all, we are evaluating the different options vis-à-vis our partners. Jean-Yves Le Drian is present at the UN General Assembly in New York to develop a European approach with its European partners. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I shall return to the question of Cherbourg later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u19	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u20	Duplicity, contempt and indecency must never be invited into a friendly relationship. And what to say when this relationship is several centuries old? Duplicity: the one that consists of negotiating in the back of France. Scorn: do not bother to inform according to custom. Indecency: invoking a technological choice when you know the excellence of our defence industry – and I welcome the exceptional response of Naval Group, which stands out from others. At home, in Cotentin, particularly in Cherbourg, the naval industry is one of the vibrant hearts. Behind these unilateral decisions, there are families, direct and indirect jobs, subcontracting companies. We do not accept to be the silent victims of this stab wound in the back. The US administration considers that its "cold war" against China allows it to sit on our country and on Europe. This reversal shows the urgency of establishing a European defence. France, as you recalled, Madam Minister, is a power in the Indo-Pacific, with 1.6 million French present. This is the time to establish European strategic sovereignty. What about an ally whose word is no longer gold? Today France, tomorrow Germany; No European country, no NATO ally is immune. In the face of an unprecedented transatlantic crisis since 2003, what will our country's firm response be? What support can be envisaged for our bruised territories? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to state that there is no justification for the shameful delight of some in the face of this bad blow to France. Groups of the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u21	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u22	I fully agree with your analysis. As I said earlier, this is not simply a breach of a contract for a major weapons programme between France and Australia, but a breach of trust between allies and a strategic turning point. With regard to Australia, which decides to entrust its entire future to the United States in the face of the Chinese threat, I would like to recall the words of the Prime Minister of that country, which are important to us all and to our naval industry: the Attack-class submarines we were to build are the best in the world in the field of conventional submarines. The termination of the contract is therefore not motivated by reasons relating to the quality of the products supplied by Naval Group, but for reasons of convenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u23	But what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u24	So this has nothing to do with our industry and the quality of our products. The United States is increasingly focused on the Indo-Pacific and China, and therefore no longer hesitate to sit down on interests and dialogue with its oldest ally, France. This also has implications for Europe. After the American withdrawal from Kabul, the Australian crisis shows us that we can only rely on ourselves and that Europe must empower itself. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So what do we do? In the immediate future, we provide our full support to the Naval Group and our industry, whose performance has been up to date. The state is mobilized to defend the group against the Australian client, who bears full responsibility for this breakup. I can't say any more, negotiations begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u25	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u26	My question is to the Minister for the Green Transition and concerns the energy check. This cheque was created by us socialists. We then proposed to increase the amount and modulate it. That is what you are doing today, of course, but partly. The increase in the energy check you are planning is indeed far too modest. She's not up to the stakes. On the social front, first of all: the income ceiling, 10800 euros, is far too low, which effectively excludes modest workers. Workers living in rural areas, however, have no choice but to go to the pump to get to work. With the increase in heating and travel bills, these families can't do it anymore. It's double trouble. Your proposal is also disconnected from the climate reality of our territories. You don't know the temperature difference between north and south.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u27	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u28	[[Smile]] This difference represents more than 500 euros a year in the bill: this sum may be a detail for you, but for some, it means a lot! The energy check aims to improve the rest of the home after the energy bill is paid. It must therefore be adjusted upwards in the North, where the climate is colder and the bills higher.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u30	It is a question of solidarity. Climate maps, which have been in existence since 2009, should be used to apply a climate coefficient. In Hauts-de-France, this coefficient is 1.3, an increase of 90 euros and a cheque of 300 euros – that's concrete! More generally, this one-off increase does not change the sustained decline in purchasing power. Your proposal is insufficient and disconnected from social and territorial realities. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on some of the GDR benches]] Minister, how can a modest worker live in dignity? When are you really going to take our territories into consideration?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u31	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u32	Is it cold in Amiens, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u33	[[Protests on the SOC benches]] A little historical reminder, Mr.Bricout: the energy check was put in place in 2018. Previously, there was what was known as "social energy tariffs", which were very complex to apply...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u34	Stop criticizing your old friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u35	...and didn't benefit everyone. They have therefore been replaced by the energy check, which is much simpler and sometimes leads to a large cheque. Thank you for reminding us that we have, through the Prime Minister, announced an extension of the energy check. From now on, no steps will be necessary and each beneficiary will receive a EUR 100 cheque in his/her mailbox at the end of the year, which will allow him/her to cope with the rise in the price of heating, caused in particular by the recovery and the decision of Russia to reduce its production. The energy check is an emergency measure, but it does not address the structural problem we know: the thermal colanders, in which some French people still live. To remedy this, the Government has taken longer-term measures such as MaPrimeRenov, which was extended to all French in 2021 by the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects. Thanks to this measure, everyone has the opportunity to renovate their housing. Finally, contrary to what you say, we think of the territories. In the new environmental regulations for new buildings, we have taken into account areas that are subject to high heat. You talked about the North, but you forget the heat and the situation of people living in poorly isolated buildings. Whether they live in the North or the South, all French people need us to help them. The Government's policy is to help the French on an ad hoc basis in difficult times such as today's. That is the meaning of the energy check. Let us recall that beyond the EUR 100 aid we have planned, we have expanded the number of beneficiaries of the energy check from 3.8 million to 5.8 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u36	Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u37	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are the measures we are taking! We are acting for the short term, but also at the structural level.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u38	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u39	Your answer is insufficient. I hope that in the future you will take more account of our territories and the differences between the North and the South. I also hope that you will take into account the proposals that we will make to you, through amendments, when we look at the finance bill, to improve purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u40	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u41	Prime Minister, after a drop in economic activity of almost 8 points in 2020, 2021 is a good year: our country is expected to grow slightly more than 6%, some even talking about growth of 6.3%. This growth, Germany and Italy, are coming to us – their growth rate is 4%. However, three major obstacles remain for the activities of our companies and the "French company". The first, as you all know, is the price of raw materials. The price of wood doubled and the price of metals increased between 70% and 80%. The second, also known, is the supply difficulty faced by 80 per cent of automotive companies, 40 per cent of electronics and computer companies, and 20 per cent of construction and public works companies. The third obstacle, obviously, is the labour market. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are not filled and we all know what will happen in the coming weeks. Will we take advantage of the recovery plan to identify durable solutions and reindustrialize our country? We cannot continue to depend on China and Asian countries. We need durable solutions to secure supplies, because efficient plants are of no use without raw materials to assemble... As far as employment is concerned, there are 1.5 million long-term unemployed people in our country who are far removed from employment and who need to be trained. For them, it's time to put the package on! And then there is this logic of silos that has always prevailed in France and is no longer acceptable. We must put everyone around the table: the regions, for their skills in training and economic development, the departments, for their skills in supporting the RSA, and the companies. It is only on this condition that we can effectively combat unemployment in our country. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] To consolidate growth, Prime Minister, it is essential that we succeed in removing these various obstacles!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u42	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u43	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u44	I would like to thank you for highlighting the strength of our economic recovery, which has been linked, I must say, to the voluntary policy of the Government, which has helped to preserve employment and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u45	That's enough self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u46	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The recovery is due in particular to the fact that the employees have retained their jobs, which has enabled the companies to quickly restart their activity. It seemed important to me to remind him. It is the measures taken by the Government that enable us to show today an unemployment rate almost equal to that of the pre-health crisis. As for the procurement and recruitment problems which we are facing and which you rightly recalled, they are at the heart of the industrial winback policy which we have been pursuing for the past four years and which has accelerated with the recovery plan. Through this program, we funded over 550 industrial relocation projects related to critical inputs, agri-food and health, among others. With regard to the shortage of certain skills, I will not mention all the measures we have taken, but I would like to point out that the "one young person, one solution" plan – my colleague Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration, is working on this issue – now allows more than two million young people to be accompanied. We have taken on board the various subjects that you have mentioned, and we must indeed continue the fight, which you have said we must fight with local authorities, companies and trainers on the ground. This is precisely what we are doing with the Territory of Industry plan, which has allowed, for the past three years, to put everyone around the table and to create new production schools based on the needs of the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore call on the regions, whose mandate has just been renewed, to mobilize to continue this fight with us so that we can work together in the interests of all and of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u47	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u48	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u49	He's not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u50	For more than a year, you have been proud to recall that when the covid-19 invited to France, at the time of the first confinement, the French used to post themselves every night at their windows to applaud our courageous caregivers. Almost unanimously, we welcomed the steps taken towards liberal practitioners, who were forced to close their offices. Let us not forget that they too were mobilized on the front of the covid. For several weeks, many liberal health professionals have had the unpleasant surprise of receiving a missive asking them to repay some or all of the aid received for the period of forced closure. According to figures provided by the Director General of CNAM (National Health Insurance Fund) to professionals, no less than 45% of doctors and 53% of dental surgeons would be involved. None of them had imagined that they would have to repay their compensation for loss of business. What reason does the health insurance claim for this sudden reversal? She accuses liberal professionals of bad faith and even mistakes in their statements! How can a professional error be invoked even though the rule of calculation has been amended by a decree after the grant of the aid? How can we not understand the anger and disappointment of these liberal professionals, who have the sad feeling of being the turkeys of the farce? We cannot save candlesticks on the backs of those who take care of our health, especially after the Segur of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Minister, will health insurance give up this request for arbitrary reimbursement?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u53	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u54	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u55	You are right to recall, the health professionals were accompanied during the health crisis. The Government has established a compensation scheme for loss of employment, and an average aid of over €6000 has been granted to 200,000 professionals, for a total amount of 1.26 billion. Advances made in 2020 were defined on the basis of reporting data, and therefore provisional, in order to make the advances as soon as possible. The definitive aid shall be calculated on the basis of the activity for the entire period covered by the scheme from March to June 2020, i.e. three and a half months. Thus, an early resumption of activity at the end of the period may, in some cases, have offset all or part of the reported loss of activity at the beginning of the period. This calculation takes into account the payments made in respect of the fees and the amount of the daily allowances received by the professional, which include the solidarity fund and the partial activity allowances transmitted to the sickness insurance. For example, an average of 70000 general practitioners and specialists received an average of 3482 euros and 1944 euros in advances, supplemented by regularisations. Nevertheless, it is true that some of the professionals – a minor part, however – were asked to return money to health insurance. The few professionals concerned have received an e-mail on this subject and will be informed of the regularisation procedures specific to their situation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I assure you, Member, that they will not be put in trouble. This provides for a 12-month phasing-in of the refund.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u56	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u57	Half is not a minor part of the practitioners!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u58	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So what should restaurants and traders expect?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u60	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u61	I would like to associate my colleagues Patricia Mirallès and Damien Adam with my question. On Monday 20 September 2021, almost sixty years after the end of the Algerian war, the Head of State delivered a speech of forgiveness, recognition and responsibility of France towards the harkis who fought alongside the French army between 1954 and 1962. Already, on the pediment of the Hôtel des Invalides, a few steps from here, are engraved the words: "The French Republic bears witness to its gratitude to the returnees who were former members of the substitute and assimilated formations or victims of the captivity in Algeria for the sacrifices they have made". This inscription pays tribute to the harkis and members of the supplementary or assimilated formations who served France during the Algerian war. It pays tribute to their faithfulness, self-denial and sacrifice. This inscription reminds us of their role in our memory. [[Applause on all benches]] I want here, before the national representation, solemnly to show our gratitude and respect for them. Madam Minister responsible for memory and veterans, today, France finally looks its past in front of it and endorses the demand for truth. In 2018, together with the Harki associations, we worked for months on the commission of inquiry into compensation for the families of harkis and their descendants. Funds of nearly $40 million were released. But nothing will erase the suffering, the camps, the oblivion and the decommissioning suffered by several generations of harkis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am a member of a constituency heavily imbued with the history of the harkis, and I know families who legitimately expect concrete and rapid measures. You announced this morning the creation of a commission of recognition and reparation for the harkis. What can you tell us, minister, about the content of the future bill on this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u62	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u63	As you said, the President of the Republic made a strong and much-awaited speech by the harkis and their families. In this speech, he spoke of a great and painful story, a story of soldiers and honour, a story of bloodshed, ultimately a story of French and French, but also a story of abandonment. To loud words, a strong gesture. The President of the Republic wanted us to implement a law of recognition and reparation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u64	Glory to the President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u65	François Hollande had already thought about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u66	...recognizing the military abandonment of the harkis and the ill-treatment they have suffered on our soil from the Republic. Recognition calls for reparation. A national commission will be established; It is the law – and therefore you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament – that will decide. It will be supported by the National Office of War Veterans and Victims (ONACVG) and will first seek to continue reparation for the first generation – the harkis who fought. It will then have to gather the necessary testimony in order to establish the level of reparation that will be granted to the second generation, that which has been received in camps or hamlets of forestation, in particularly unworthy living conditions and without access to school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will have an opportunity in a few weeks to discuss this bill together, to determine what measures we want to take in favour of the harkis and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u67	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u68	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all live up to this ambition and that such a long-awaited law will once and for all make it possible to grant reparation to our harki friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u69	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u70	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Minister, for several months, delays have accumulated in the processing of FCA files – the family allowance fund – with disastrous consequences. More than 5 million pieces are waiting for processing; On average, the caisses are three to four months behind schedule and in some places, the files received on May 12 have only just been processed. The reform of the LPA – personalized housing assistance – finally came into effect on January 1st, catalysing the difficulties. First of all, young people with incomes between 800 and 1300 euros per month have seen their APL decrease on average by 95 euros per month, and the decrease is up to 106 euros for wages between 1201 and 1521 euros. In addition, the reform introduced a new very complex calculation method, supported by a new software that has superimposed itself on the old system, which has become completely obsolete. This resulted in cascading bugs, computational errors and major slowdowns. The employees told us that in order to pay the start-up allowance on time, it was necessary to suspend the computer system for three hours throughout France, as it is outdated. In addition, there is a shortage of staff. The goal and management agreement (COG) 2018-2022 provided for 2100 job deletions, and physical receptions continue to close. Such a situation is not sustainable for the beneficiaries, who have been waiting for the benefits to which they are entitled for several months, while the context of the health and economic crisis has weakened many households. It is also not the case for CAF employees, who are forced to work overtime or buy RTT to keep pace, and who sometimes have to deal with the anger of suffering people. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] Mr Minister, my question is therefore simple: are you finally going to commit the necessary means to carry out the reform on the ground, under decent conditions for the beneficiaries and for the employees? Will you in particular decide on a moratorium on the abolition of posts, in the context of the negotiations of the next GOC? The Prime Minister has just announced the recentralisation of the RSA; So we can fear the worst.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u71	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u72	You have referred to the reform of housing assistance, both in terms of substance and organization. This reform is important because it is fair: as you know, it has made it possible to better match the amount of aid to that of the most recent resources of the 6 million beneficiaries. As such, it is closely monitored by the Government. You mentioned several malfunctions. Of course, some difficulties have arisen and I will return to them. But first of all, I would like to welcome the commitment of all the personnel of the CAF, whom I meet regularly – as Secretary of State for Children and Families, I had the opportunity, during my travels, to visit many caisses and thus to talk with the agents about the difficulties they have encountered in recent weeks and months. Although it is still tense in some places, which obviously needs to be addressed, the situation is improving. As you said, the reform was based on a new information and calculation system. Adjustments and incidents related to this novelty have caused real difficulties; However, we estimate that only 2% of recipients were affected by the contemporaneization – that is the term – of the LPA. In addition, each difficulty was individually corrected and each anomaly repaired. There is no doubt that they have overloaded the network and affected its agents; I once again pay tribute to them. However, you should be aware, Madam Member, that we have not observed any breakdowns in service. If a longer processing period has been found for certain cases, the payment has always been made, be it housing subsidies or other allowances that you mentioned. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, know – to be completely complete – that a remedial plan has been in place at the Caisse nationale des allocations familiales and in each of the CAFs for several months, and that other tasks have been postponed in order to better cope with the situation. I would also like to point out that the last important mission, which was to recalculate the fees of 1.3 million beneficiaries at the end of August, was perfectly carried out. We are therefore on the way to an improvement for the 13 million beneficiaries of the CAF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u73	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u74	[[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] [[President cuts the speaker's microphone]] You therefore confirm, Mr Secretary of State, that the scheme has not worked and that this situation continues. It is true that, as shown by the recentralization of the RSA, you always want to go faster and stronger, especially when it doesn't work! It's very scary and you know...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u75	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u76	My question is to Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement. Madam Secretary of State, there are laws that are unanimously passed in the Chamber; They are therefore of particular importance. The law in favour of associative engagement and the law to improve the cash flow of associations – which is the result of a proposal that you drafted with us, when you were still on those benches in the MODEM Group and related democrats – were both voted unanimously on 24 June. It clearly shows the attachment of each and every one of us to associative life. We spent part of the summer informing the community about the content of these two laws, in particular regarding the best protection of volunteer presidents, the funds granted for the training of volunteers, the awareness of the commitment of college students and high school students, as well as the major advances made in the cash flow and financing of associations. You even came to Strasbourg to meet 104 of our association leaders, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u77	It's just com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u78	But many associations, ladies and gentlemen, are sounding alarms – this is probably the case in most of our constituencies: they tell us that they are far from regaining their number of pre-crisis members and volunteers. For some, accession rates have fallen considerably;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u79	Up to 30%!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u80	...the re-entry confirms this trend. Of course, new forms of engagement were born during the crisis, but such a decline confronts our associations with a real challenge. We accompanied them during the crisis; in the same way, we must support them in the post-crisis phase. We measure all the stakes, since associative life is essential: it weaves the social bond and it is in short our model of society that depends on it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Madam Secretary of State, how can we act in practice, beyond words, to combat the worrying decline in the number of members and volunteers and, in particular, to boost the commitment of our young people, who have so much to bring to the world of associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u81	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u82	You are right, honourable Member: the fact that the laws you mention have been unanimously passed shows that we agree on these essential issues, and we again welcome the attitude of national representation in this area. Associations are obviously the heart and lung of our society. During the crisis, they were first accompanied financially, to respond to the urgency, in particular thanks to the UrgencESS fund launched by Olivia Grégoire, the solidarity fund and partial unemployment, which kept employees in employment. However, economic and financial support had to be complemented by human support. This required reassuring community leaders and reinvigorating volunteerism. Several mechanisms have been supported in this direction, including the civic hour, a platform that Jacqueline Gourault takes care of in the framework of an agreement with the local authorities, and the civic reserve, which allows us to mobilise all of our territories – more than 300,000 people have joined it at national level. There is also support for the return of volunteers to associations, which are encouraged from an early age. Jean-Michel Blanquer has initiated an accompaniment that starts at primary school and is then valued at secondary school and high school; It takes its roots in schools and in families. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr President, such a dynamic can only be built with the associations themselves. With the support and will of the Prime Minister, we launched a major campaign to call on associations to open their doors and to attract volunteers, particularly in the context of the two recent weekend of voluntary forums. This is the campaign "My association, I love it, I adhere to it! ", developed with the Associative Movement and Hexopee, thus with the associations. Above all, it has one objective: to tell all the volunteers and all the French that the great Marshall plan we must launch is to support the return of the link, the return to our associations, the return of life!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u83	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u84	I ask my question on behalf of my two Caledonian colleagues, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès; It is addressed to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, since 6 September, New Caledonia has suffered a massive epidemic wave. We already regret 33 deaths and with nearly 5000 positive cases confirmed to date, hospital services are saturated. We would like to express our sincere thanks to you for the responsiveness of the Government to the tsunami; It allows the arrival of 130 professionals from the National Health Reserve as early as this week – the first have arrived today. The goal now is to reach a vaccination rate of 80 to 90 per cent as soon as possible, while only 34 per cent of the population is now vaccinated. With this in mind, we have asked you to diversify the vaccine supply and allow Caledonians access to inactivated virus vaccines. On the economic front, the ongoing third confinement will require, more than ever, careful support from the State, especially as the political uncertainty affecting the future of New Caledonia greatly undermines the confidence of companies. Prime Minister, at a time when France's indo-pacific strategy is being undermined and at the edge of the third referendum on independence, the health crisis sheds new light on the choice of Caledonians. Indeed, the State was exemplary alongside New Caledonia and all its inhabitants: it was exemplary in terms of health support, thanks to the dispatch of vaccines, tests and the intervention of the national health reserve; Then at the economic level, since more than 8000 Caledonian companies have benefited from the EMPs – State-guaranteed loans – and from the Solidarity Fund, for a total of 30 billion Pacific francs; It has finally been done by supporting the institutions, by means of a financial aid of 10 billion covering quarantine expenditure. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] In fact, Prime Minister, you understand, my question is not one. My two colleagues, on behalf of the people of Caledon, simply wish to thank you and the State for supporting New Caledonia and for continuing to do so as it needs it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u85	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] Thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to recall, as Parliament resumes its work, that the past months have been particularly difficult for our ultramarine compatriots. I would like to pay tribute to all the personnel who have been mobilized in these territories, including those coming from metropolis, who have voluntarily visited them and who have faced with courage and determination the effects of the epidemic. As you said, Mr. MP, New Caledonia has unfortunately not escaped the rule, and we have even been surprised by the virulence and speed with which the epidemic has spread, in a territory that was, I would remind you, endowed with the status "covid-free". But she was able to cope, and I would like at the outset to pay tribute to the very strong commitment of the authorities and elected representatives of Caledonia, who, in close connection – obviously – with the High Commissioner of the Republic, immediately took the necessary steps. In particular, they had to resort – in a traditional way – to containment, which was extended, as you know, until 4 October, and to other health measures. The capacity of resuscitation beds has been multiplied by three – from 20 to 57 beds – and I would point out to the National Assembly that eight patients have even been evacuated from New Caledonia to the metropolis. You mentioned the reinforcements. I confirm that today, 77 people will join the Caillou. We also delivered equipment: 400 oxygen concentrators, 420 mask pallets and 300,000 tests were sent to New Caledonia. But of course, there as elsewhere, vaccination is the strongest weapon to deal with the epidemic. I remind you that the Caledonian authorities have made it mandatory; Although this is still insufficient, more than 44% of the population is already pre-vaccinated. We have also accompanied the Caledonian economy, which was particularly affected by the health crisis, as shown by the figures you mentioned and which I do not recall. There as elsewhere, our policy has been constant: health support and economic support. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With a view to the third referendum on self-determination, Sébastien Lecornu, the Minister for Overseas Affairs, will visit the country from 4 to 19 October to ensure both the situation on the island and the conditions for organizing the consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u87	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u88	Prime Minister, on Thursday, Australia announced that it was denouncing the contract to purchase twelve submarines with France. I say Australia but I should say the United States: Joe Biden has announced it since the White House. This is an unprecedented betrayal: tens of billions were at stake; Naval Group's load plan is upset; jobs are threatened; We had already transferred sensitive know-how to Australians, as well as now to the United States. The United States protects its hegemony and is prepared to do anything for it. They have 750 military bases abroad. They treat their allies like vassals. To tighten the stride against China, they are now involved in nuclear proliferation. This is how the United States that Emmanuel Macron and your government have been following blindly for almost five years. And your reaction was pitiful: the cancellation of a dinner at the embassy in Washington. It was so ridiculous that you ended up reminding our ambassadors. All right! But that kind of symbol is nothing. It's not the time to stutter, it's the time to act. The independence of France, that is what the French aspire to: to refuse any embrigation, any alignment, to remain a power of mediation in the service of peace, including in the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific Ocean. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let's not allow the United States to take over our country. Let us refuse to follow them blindly in their new cold war against China. Let us leave NATO and refuse the installation of its space centre in Toulouse. Let's defend our industry, instead of delivering it to the United States, as Macron did when he drew Alstom! Let's end it with naivety! No, defence Europe is not a credible alternative: European treaties make everything subordinate to NATO; Germany is shaping it to serve its own interests to the detriment of our own. [[Applause on the banks of the FI Group. – Ms Marie-GeorgeBuffetapplauditedalso]] What real retaliatory measures do you intend to take? Do you really want to guarantee the independence of our country? If so, when will you decide to leave NATO?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u89	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u90	Yes, we want clarifications and explanations because in an alliance that works, partners are respected and a shared strategy is being implemented. Australia's breach of the submarine contract, as well as the attitude of the United States, is a further illustration of the fact that we have been making for months, that of a lack of political dialogue within the Atlantic Alliance. What are the consequences? Forgive me for not shooting exactly the same as you. Firstly, we must remember that the Atlantic Alliance has a core business: the collective defence of Europe, pursuant to Article 5 of the Treaty. The United States plays an essential role in this, but France also has its own role, particularly by being present with the Baltic States. Secondly, the current crisis illustrates the need for a rebalancing between the United States and Europeans. It is in this spirit that the allies decided, at the initiative of France and Germany, to initiate a revision of what is known as the Alliance's strategic concept. Without going into this technical term, I can tell you that it is a question of reminding you that NATO's raison d'être is about transatlantic security and not about confrontation with China. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are the terms of the clarification we are waiting for. It will have to intervene in a coordinated manner with the European Union, which itself is setting its roadmap: the strategic compass – this is its name – will set our ambitions in terms of European sovereignty. A strong Europe is also a strong Alliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u91	In the meantime, what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u92	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u93	After the Australian contract was cancelled, some presidential candidates gave way to the old nationalist moons or the songs of the Warsaw Pact sirens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u95	Still others, such as Cassandre, claim to have anticipated the termination of the contract even though, following a joint summit on 30 August, the Foreign and Defence Ministers of our two countries reaffirmed their support for this programme. Colleagues, our fellow citizens expect a lot of us. The Australian decision will affect the lives of 650 families. I know Naval Group at work to reclassify its employees but also to preserve the jobs and skills of its subcontractors. With regard to the termination of the contract, I know that the interests of the State and Naval Group are defended with the utmost intransigence. But we also have a responsibility to support the company and to support the activity in the design offices. Some sovereign programs – including the next-generation nuclear submarine launchers – need to be accelerated as well as other research programs. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Madam Minister of the Armed Forces, how do you envisage supporting the company after this volte-face? What will be the consequences for our Indo-Pacific strategy? Is the intensification of our partnerships with India, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia envisaged at the time of the Sino-American confrontation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u96	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u97	Thank you for your question, Congressman. I said it and said it again because it is important: it is not "only" – forgive me for using this word – the breakdown of an armament programme, but a matter of how international relations will be conducted in the future. Let us not dwell on this aspect already discussed in order to focus on one of our objectives: to defend and ensure the protection of the interests of Naval Group, its employees and its subcontractors. This important program involves 650 employees from Naval Group in Cherbourg, 350 employees in Australia, as well as subcontractors. As I have already mentioned, negotiations are beginning as Australia has denounced its contract with Naval Group. These contracts are governed by rules and contain clauses that will obviously be invoked to protect the best interests of all, which are the interests of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u98	You failed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u99	The State will accompany Naval Group and its subcontractors to find the most satisfactory solution possible, on the understanding that we obviously want to bring responsibility for this breach to Australia. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Finally, I repeat, we must draw more broadly, at European level, all the consequences of this deplorable affair. That is what we are doing in the context of the debates that we have, in particular, on the European Union's strategy in the Indo-Pacific area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u100	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u101	[[Olivier Becht applauds]] The employees of Naval Group and the entire chain of subcontractors are counting on you and thank you for your determined action that should be pursued with the various countries mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u102	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u103	My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Australia therefore announced that it would not ultimately purchase the 12 submarines to be built by the Naval Group, under a contract entered into in 2016. You spoke of "treason" and "knock in the back" when the Australian Prime Minister spoke of a change of need related to Chinese expansionism in the region. Most observers consider this Australian deed, however brutal it may be, to have been on the rise for many months, with the conclusion of the AUKUS pact between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States. The will of these countries is to be equipped with appropriate and compatible weapons and military equipment in the event of a major conflict with China. France clearly wants to play an autonomous role in the region without aligning itself with either the United States or China. You have recently argued that we are the European power present in the Pacific where we have two million nationals and 7,000 soldiers. The European Union should also adopt such an autonomous foreign policy. However, European countries have very different positions in this area, with some wishing to continue to place themselves under the protection of the American military umbrella, while others are more likely to develop a proper military and diplomatic path. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC group. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] Beyond the diplomatic protests against the predatory attitude of the Americans on these military issues, what long-term reaction do you think you will engage after this camouflet?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u104	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u105	You have reminded him yourself, Mr.Member, that France has major interests in the Indo-Pacific zone: we have nationals and a military presence of nearly 7,000 men. This is a major economic challenge not only for us but also for the world, as 60% of the world's wealth goes through this area. Ironically, on the very day of the announcement of the denunciation of this submarine contract, Europeans published their Indo-Pacific strategy, in line with the speech delivered in May 2018 by the President of the Republic in Australia. We have begun to build this strategy together, having convinced Europeans that our continent must have a distinct voice between, on the one hand, a China whose rise in power is real and verified every day in the economic and military fields, and, on the other hand, the United States, which has been engaged for several years in a process of confrontation with China, which, according to the latest developments, can take a military form. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This indo-pacific strategy is not in gestation: it comes from afar and returns to 2018. Within the framework of the French presidency of the European Union, we will have the opportunity to develop and integrate it into the strategic compass, in favour of a Europe that is not content to protect its borders but is able to project itself to defend its interests where they are called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u106	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u107	A week ago, the Minister for Environmental Transition, the Government announced the payment of a new EUR 100 energy check, which will benefit nearly 6 million modest households. First of all, it is a question of reacting to a particular context: the rise in gas and electricity prices in European markets, which, as you have pointed out, is the result, in particular, of a strong global demand for gas and a reduction in production in Russia and Norway. Since household heating bills are likely to be particularly high this winter due to these cyclical increases, we must anticipate their difficulties. This additional energy check will once again strengthen the purchasing power of the most fragile French. It is in addition to all the social and environmental measures that the Government has already implemented. With more than 500,000 files filed in 2021, the MaPrimeRenov' device continues to grow in power and confirms its success. It helps the French to reduce their energy renovation costs such as heating change, insulation or ventilation of their homes. How can we not also mention the 30 billion euros of the France Recovery plan dedicated to the ecological transition, the introduction of the first green budget or the social measures of the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects – the increase of the sustainable mobility package and the conversion premium and the experimentation of a zero-rate loan for the purchase of electric vehicles in low-emission areas? All these measures are coherent and pragmatic. They confirm the majority's commitment to a more ecological, resilient, just and supportive society. An ecology of action and not of incantation. A responsible and social ecology. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, what will be the practical arrangements for implementing the Energy Check? How will French and French people benefit from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u108	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u109	Thank you for this question, which will allow me to give more details on how our citizens can benefit from the energy check.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u110	The energy check is us in 2015!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u111	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the SOC group]] First of all, I would like to remind you that until 2018, when the majority generalised it, the French did not have an energy check, except in the four departments where the experiment envisaged by the 2015 law on the energy transition for green growth was going on – I had supported this text at the time. Its amount has been increased and can reach 277 euros, and its application has been extended, since new beneficiaries can have access to it – I am thinking in particular of people living in homes for the elderly, such as EHPADs, EHPAs, independent residences or long-term care units. All these advances have been allowed by our majority, precisely because we are concerned about the rise in energy prices and its consequences, especially on the most fragile. That's why we introduced the energy check. Moreover, the economic situation will lead to a sharp rise in energy prices and we have therefore decided, by the voice of the Prime Minister, to increase the amount of the energy cheque by 100 euros on an exceptional basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u112	It's cold in the North!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u113	The beneficiaries of the energy check have no steps to take: all will be entitled to this extension. The cheque will arrive directly in their mailbox, and they will, as usual, be able to send it to their energy supplier. Those who want the amount of the cheque to be deducted directly from their energy bill can also do so thanks to the pre-assignment system, which has been set up to make life easier for them. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, of course, we expect the future, by helping the beneficiaries of the energy check to renovate their housing, to change cars and to access other types of mobility, because the price of energy is also the price of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u114	[[Applause on all benches]] Before giving her the floor, I am pleased to welcome Mrs. Christelle Petex-Levet, who became a Member of Parliament for the third electoral district of Haute-Savoie on 1 August, to replace Mr. Martial Saddier. Dear colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u115	Thank you for your words of welcome, Mr. President. It is a great honour to represent the inhabitants of the third electoral district of Haute-Savoie and to succeed Martial Saddier, of whom I was the alternate. I would therefore like to thank him once again for his confidence. My question is for the Prime Minister, and I would like to associate my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller with it. As you know, the health crisis that we are going through has seriously weakened the functioning of our EHPADs and our medical and social centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u117	They were already affected by serious recruitment difficulties before the pandemic, and the crisis of the covid-19 highlighted a real understaffing problem in these institutions: health workers, educational and administrative staff have been under pressure for months. While we agree with the vaccination obligation of all staff, which has been in force since 15 September, it further undermines the precarious balance in the functioning of EHPADs and medical-social centres. The suspension of non-vaccination workers, coupled with increased absenteeism and cascading resignations, obliges these establishments to make foolish choices between residents and to return a number of them to their homes. The support quality of other residents has also been significantly reduced. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Many EHPADs and medical and social centres are in such a situation that they have gone beyond the drama of having to choose between their residents, and are now forced to make the decision to close because of lack of staff. Many elderly and disabled people of all ages may find themselves without a place of reception, without a place of life. Prime Minister, when and how does your Government intend to react? What concrete actions do you intend to propose to stop this intolerable situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u118	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u119	I welcome you, Member. With regard to the vaccination obligation, our line, which I know is shared by many other actors in the sector, is to apply the penalties laid down by law for unvaccinated professionals. For many months, we have collectively committed ourselves to the vaccination obligation, and have encouraged professionals to take this path. Every week, I am in contact with all the federations of older actors, whether they are involved in EHPAD or at home: believe me, everyone has committed themselves to the obligation and the vaccination incentive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u120	It's all right, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u121	I know that other actors around me also hold this speech and support health professionals. The feedback I've had for two weeks shows that the situation is not as dramatic as you want to describe it, far from it! The number of suspended professionals is quite marginal: 3000 out of more than 1 million staff. We must therefore continue our efforts. Some establishments are more affected than others – you have recalled the situation of the one on your territory. In the highly affected territories, we have signed agreements with regional health agencies (RHAs) on a voluntary basis to allow liberals to cope with the time to find professionals. The attractiveness of these professions is a problem: tensions in human resources have not arisen from the health crisis, or even from the obligation to vaccinate; They're far longer than that, and we're working on it, you know that. Help us! Be aware that we have solutions, which were presented to the directors of EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u122	Mrs Christelle Petex-Levet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] I would like to repeat that I am talking about a concrete situation: elderly people and autistic children are sent home for lack of space!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u124	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u125	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u126	From the beginning of the legislature, by initiating a tour de France of the hospitals, the Communist parliamentarians had launched the alert on the state of abyss in which our caregivers were located after the law on the reform of the hospital and on patients, health and territories, known as the Bachelot law, and the law on the modernization of our health system, known as the Touraine law, which inoculated the virus of the accounting rule in our public health institutions. The unprecedented health crisis that we have been through, the dishope of the hospital community, the strong and dignified mobilization against the state of dehumanization of our EHPAD: all this has forced you to act. The Segur of Health was presented as the miracle prescription. However, as we speak, we now have knowledge, health territory by health territory, region by region, of the budget envelopes intended to cover health needs. In Normandy – and this is just one example – hospitals, which have not fallen into a delirium of buying fever, report a need for investment of 960 million euros. In response, the Regional Health Agency (RHA) promises us € 255 million. "At the height of the coop! ", as they say at home. In the same spirit, the field of medico-social, i.e. the humanization of the care of seniors, faces the same gap between means and needs. I would add that here as elsewhere, the criteria for access to care are worrying: as long as you do not have the political courage to territorialize the numerus clausus, the lack of doctors, both in the hospital and in the city, will deprive our inhabitants of concrete access to care. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat and Mr Philippe Naillet also applaud]] We also know that the lack of beds and doctors leads you to deprive our fellow citizens of freedom, regardless of the health situation – Karine Lebon pointed out this morning with regard to La Réunion. [[Same movements]] Minister, the Normandy region, whose participation is not intended to exempt the state from its responsibilities, needs an extension under the Ségur de la santé. For France, we need a health policy that meets the needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u127	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u128	She did well to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u129	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You are right to point out the difficulties of the health sector. But perhaps it's a little bit quick to forget the EUR 12 billion of Ségur de la santé, 12 billion that, for years, no one has ever put on the table! Could we sometimes, in all intellectual honesty, highlight positive things when they happen, rather than systematically pointing at what may be missing in an envelope?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u130	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u131	I wish we could do that, sometimes, in this House as elsewhere! [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Jumel, I say to you: cultivating despair has never moved things forward. The salary adjustment is now effective for a very large number of staff: if it is still lacking for some, it will be served on January 1, 2022 – the agreement is signed. No one will be forgotten, let alone the territories since the envelopes are calculated in proportion to the information they bring back to us: we do not invent the amount of envelopes dedicated to the territories, but determine it according to the needs that the latter tell us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would remind you that your department will benefit from a financial consolidation of € 247 million, in addition to the € 255 million for projects and € 73 million for current investment, i.e. € 576 million in total. In addition, the University Hospital Centre (CHU) in Caen will benefit from an extension of EUR 50 million from a national envelope. [[New applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I want to hear a lot of things, but know what we've been able to do by your side! And we will continue, because it is a multi-year plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u132	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] Madam Deputy Minister, you have not listened to the question, and you have not answered it! The health needs are greater than the means you hire.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u134	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u135	Minister Delegate for Small and Medium Enterprises, the plan for self-employed workers unveiled on Thursday 16 September 2021 by the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, in your presence, represents a real support for these professionals who are at the heart of our social and economic fabric. Many reforms have been introduced since 2017, and the state has also been at the meeting during the health crisis. The plan for self-employed workers aims to go even further, by better protecting them from life-related accidents, by accompanying them from the creation of a business to its transmission and by simplifying their daily routines. Prior to the bill, I organized a legislative workshop with the Tarn women entrepreneurs, who were able to make proposals. Moreover, as we were able to see yesterday during your visit to the traders and business leaders of Gaillac, in my department of Tarn, this plan arouses a real enthusiasm on the part of the independents: it is hailed on the ground because it meets expectations. My colleague Natalia Pouzyreff, Member of Parliament for the Yvelines, who, like me, has received you in her constituency, has had the same unanimous return on this protective plan, which constitutes an additional step to the credit of trust in our action. A company manager from Senouillac at the meeting held last night said: "You are building an action that I think makes sense. Everything I've heard tonight gives me hope in the company and in our country. » The bill includes many proposals, such as adjustment of contributions, protection of personal assets, equal treatment in corporate tax, protection of the co-workers' spouse, and I am moving on. The members of the majority unanimously welcome this plan and your work, Minister Delegate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like you to explain in more detail the measure relating to the transmission of enterprises and know-how, because this is a subject which, since the beginning of the mandate, comes back very often in our discussions with entrepreneurs in our territories, regardless of their sector of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u136	The next speaker is the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u137	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs. Verdier-Jouclas, for your invitation. I enjoyed the exchanges I had yesterday with the artisans and traders in your constituency. These self-employed workers – 3 million artisans, traders, liberal professionals – are the beating heart of the territorial economy, and an indispensable social and economic link. During the health crisis, we put in place measures tailored to their needs to support them and enable them to respond. I think the result was really effective. Moreover, since the beginning of the quinquennium, other measures have already been taken, such as the reform of the self-employed social system (RSI), of which much has been said, the possibility of making a unified social and tax return of income or the decreasing reduction of health insurance contributions. Nevertheless, the self-employed have been working for decades in a fiscal, social and regulatory environment that is not adapted to their size, which is why the President of the Republic has indicated his willingness to submit to Parliament a thorough reform of their environment. This reform provides for measures for all stages of the company's life, from its creation to its transmission and development. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The question of the transmission of companies, on which you are asking me in particular, is a real French weakness. Compared to Germany, we are suffering from a large deficit in ETI – intermediate-sized enterprises – due to poor corporate transmission. We will therefore present to Parliament measures to improve this transmission, both for the transferor and for the acquirer, so that the men and women who now want to undertake, consider corporate transfer and recovery as a crucial element. I hope that Parliament will accompany this important reform for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u138	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u139	My question, to which I associate my colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, is addressed to the Prime Minister. I am referring to the abandonment, by your Government, of an entire territory, of a pool of life and employment centred around the now former nuclear power station in Fessenheim. I want to talk about your unfulfilled commitments, the contract – not denounced, this one – that your government had entered into with this area on the Rhine, which, on that date, is still not respected, but drowned, like a submarine, under studies and silences! Four years after your decision to close, we can only note the abandonment of the State: despite the promises of ministers who came to the place or lived nearby, despite the unanimous mobilization of local elected officials, nothing has been done about the tax compensation under the National Fund for Individual Guarantee of Resources (FNGIR), which remains at a standstill, nor about the reindustrialization of the territory, which has not started. The elected representatives are discouraged and our fellow citizens are bewildered. Therefore, my question is simple: when will you decide to repair the consequences of your choices? Reindustrialization is all the more urgent as the Mars Wrigley Group announced a week ago the closure of its historic factory in Biesheim, which will leave 280 people, on average 49 years old. While this is a terrible shock for the employees and for the many families involved, your government is once again to the absent subscribers. In fact, this situation illustrates the absence of an industrial policy worthy of this name since 2017. This is one of the failures of this quinquennium, and it will be a major challenge for future deadlines. This territory near Basel is ideally placed to become a pilot site for the reindustrialization of pharmaceuticals in France. I have pleaded this since I was elected, as well, for the installation of a hydrogen plant on the Rhine. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I look forward to real support from your Government on these two specific points. Are you ready to take up the challenge and finally look to the East of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u140	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u141	It is clear that the announcement of the cessation of one of the two production activities at the Biesheim site, which involves an employment safeguard plan (PES) with 276 job cuts out of 338 jobs in the factory, is very bad news for employees and the territory. I fully understand the emotion that is yours as a Member of Parliament for the constituency concerned. I want to assure you that my priority is to make every effort to facilitate the retraining of the employees concerned. My services are working closely with the company to create a platform to facilitate the reclassification of employees, as was done in Bethune for Bridgestone employees. Agnès Pannier-Runacher and I are also very attentive to the search for new activities on the site, in order to identify other opportunities – agri-food, but not only – that could offer new opportunities to employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u142	Think of the armies too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u143	It is also a matter of ensuring the sustainability of the activities remaining on the site, since the company has committed to maintaining on the Biesheim site a basic gum production activity, which must feed the other factories of the group worldwide. I say again: the state will accompany the transition of your territory which, I know, is in the midst of transformation and is preparing a new future through the work carried out to accompany the closure of the Fessenheim plant. In this respect, I will mention in particular the projects supported by the seed fund, but also those planned under the France Recovery Plan, i.e. twenty-one projects representing EUR 284 million in industrial investment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The State is and will continue to be mobilised in the territory of Fessenheim and its employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u144	The art of speaking so as not to say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u145	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u146	Mr Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport, I would like to inform you of the very concrete difficulties encountered in the application of the health pass in associative and sporting life. In the beginning of the year, all the Members of Parliament saw this in the associations' forums organised on the ground: the methods of checking the sanitary pass are often a puzzle for sports associations and clubs, already weakened after eighteen months of health crisis, by the loss of members and layoffs and the disaffection of some volunteers. Take the example of a multi-purpose multi-activity municipal hall. It can host a general assembly in the morning, for which the health pass is not compulsory, regardless of the number of people present. The same room will be able to host, later in the day, a choir or gymnastics activity, two practices submitted to the sanitary pass from the first participant, but exempted from wearing the mask. At the end of the day, a chess club will be able to come here: this time, it will be necessary to present a sanitary pass and wear a mask, even if the participants are far fewer than the members who came in the morning for the general assembly. It's a gas factory! The situation is further complicated for minors between the ages of 12 and 17. As Minister of National Education and Sports, you know that if the health pass is not required for students in physical and sports education courses (EPS) or school sports, it will be required for these same minors if they are dismissed in sports associations: double standards! It is a major obstacle to the resumption of the sport practice of the younger generations. While some have resumed a licence at the beginning of the school year, the reluctance of some parents to have them immunized may deprive them of physical activity in a club as of October 1st, down from public health issues and the fight against sedentaryness. Should they be tested three times a week, while the tests will be paid in mid-October? I will not even mention the recommendations in favour of a drastic limitation of the moments of conviviality and brewing, whereas the drinks and the restoration are indispensable to the cash flow of the associations hard tried by the cessation of activities. [[Applause on the SOC, LR and GDR benches]] Are you considering, in the coming weeks, a reduction of the health pass in the associative and sports life?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u147	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u148	We share the same objective: like you, and like all Members, I would like to make the most of sports practice this year. Roxana Maracinanu and I use it through multiple devices, which I will not list here. As you know, the President of the Republic himself has committed himself to the sport, whose aim is to encourage as many children as possible to register for a sports activity in this school year with a cheque of 50 euros. We are therefore very mobilized, through a series of measures, to strengthen clubs and associations. I have just launched Operation Un club, a school, so that the generalization of thirty minutes of physical activity per day for primary school children is based on partnerships with clubs. The will is there. As always since the beginning of this crisis, it is in compliance with health criteria. This requirement will indeed translate, as you have pointed out, into the obligation to present the health pass on 1 October. Whether on defence counsel or on all committees in which we participate, we always ensure that these rules are consistent with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u149	They're not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u150	I fully understand your question. You first compared different fields of activity, then different sectors of sports life. As far as the various fields are concerned, it is normal for sport to comply with specific rules and to apply measures corresponding to it, while at the same time sometimes making a distinction, as has been the case in the past, between contact and other sports. Secondly, everything related to school life comes. We have always said that the health pass would not apply, because school is a particular world. It is true that the world of sports associations is in some way on horseback between school life and sports life. We may be able to change the rules – potentially in the sense of imposing the health pass on sports associations. What is certain is that our decisions will have to take into account the health situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] A defence counsel will be held shortly. Then we'll look at what's going on. I would like to point out that the current figures are quite good, contrary to the sometimes worrying forecasts that could be made in recent times. It is in the light of the development of the situation that we may be able to take further decisions, but for the time being the health pass will be necessary as from 1 October in the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u151	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u152	My question is to Mr Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families. I associate my colleagues from all sides, as well as Secretary of State Nathalie Elimas, mobilized in favour of this cause on the occasion of the gold September operation. Let me first recall a few figures: 2750 is the number of children affected by cancer in France every year; 160000 is the number of children who succumb to this disease in the world, and they are all broken families. These figures, revolting and unbearable, continue to increase: in thirteen years, the number of paediatric cancer victims has increased by 18%. We continue to face numerous therapeutic stalemates, as is the case for brain stem tumours. In France, seven children are operated every day to receive their chemotherapy treatment – children who survive, of course, but who keep many sequelae and co-morbidity factors for life. To date, 50% of drugs prescribed to children with cancer remain non-specific, and research programs in the previous Cancer Plan, which account for only about 3% of the budget of the National Cancer Institute (NCCI), remain insufficient. In several regions, the Regional Health Agency (ARS) is alerted by cancer groups in a concentrated area, such as Sainte-Pazanne in Loire-Atlantique, in my department, in Saint-Rogatien in Charente-Maritime or in Haut-Jura. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] What do you say to Enguerrand, Margot, Ruben, Cassandra, Eva, Alban, Louise, Flavien, Lenny, Jade, Nina, Sarah, Juliette and all the others? What are the means used to study the cocktail effects, i.e. the addition of several factors related to the environmental causes of paediatric cancers? What place do you reserve for funding research programs on the causes of these cancers in the current Cancer Plan? What do you intend to do for our children?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u153	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u154	Thank you for your question, which highlights this formidable tool of mobilization and awareness that constitutes the gold September operation. I am also pleased to see many Members wearing the sign on their jackets. I also associate myself with your question, MP Paul Christophe, who is also committed to this issue of paediatric cancer, which is the leading cause of death by disease in children. You recalled: more than 2200 children report this type of disease each year. While the diagnosis and treatment of these cancers have evolved significantly in recent years, there is obviously a lot to be done. That is why the mobilization of all against these cancers is at the heart of the actions of the 10-year strategy for the years 2021 to 2030. With regard to understanding these diseases, which is the first necessary step to improve treatment and prognosis, you stressed the need to take environmental health issues into account. This is an opportunity for me to welcome once again the report you have produced on this subject. Of course, we share the desire to encourage research into the causes of pathologies, taking into account, in particular, the concept of exposome, which refers to all exposures to factors conducive to the occurrence of diseases. I am convinced that the Government's National Environmental Health Plan (NHP) is ambitious in this regard. It must now be fully and quickly deployed – I also agree with you on this point. This will involve the mobilization of all actors – especially local elected representatives, I would like to stress. Treatments, too, are progressing. I recall that we have launched a call for projects called "High Risk-High Gain", to generate more breakthroughs to deal with these pathologies. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] Finally, I would like to point out that tools are being mobilised to support families. Great progress has already been made. Others will be quickly implemented after the vote and the promulgation of the bill aimed at improving the conditions of parental presence with a child whose pathology requires sustained support, submitted by Paul Christophe. I am aware, however, that I, too, am listening to families, and that there is still a long way to go in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u155	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I encourage all my parliamentary colleagues to mobilize and raise awareness among elected officials in their constituencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u157	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u158	Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, on a visit to La Réunion in October 2019 – I say "visiting" rather than "campaigning" – has pledged to review the functioning of the CDPENAF in the overseas. Everyone knows this: it is the departmental commission for the preservation of natural, agricultural and forestry areas. This commission was set up by the old majority – the old world, therefore! Aware of this reality, and probably also under the charm of our perfumes, our aromas and our welcome, the President of the Republic has become aware of the need to review the functioning of this body. Where does this need come from? The fact that in the overseas regions, the CDPENAF gives a assent – therefore decision-making and binding – while in the Hexagon, it gives a simple opinion, which is advisory. Our territory is small and the CDPENAF is holding us back. I am not alone in saying this: the town halls and the Chamber of Agriculture, among other things, also affirm this. The Reunion will soon have 1 million inhabitants. We expect you, Prime Minister, to fulfil this promise. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The Reunions are waiting. The Marseillais are also waiting – they have received a President of the Republic, not visiting but in the countryside, with the taxpayer's checkbook.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u160	On the one hand, a reform that does not cost anything is not done despite one promise, on the other billions are promised. There is more than a doubt about the fulfilment of these commitments. And it is not the people of Saint-Martin who will say the opposite, they to whom 500 million euros have been promised for the reconstruction of their territory after the passage of Irma. To date, only 140 million have been disbursed. Prime Minister, I ask you, perhaps with the "three goddesses" – I am referring to the bill called 3DS, differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification – to eliminate this inequality between Hexagon and overseas so that we have any useful means...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u161	Mr. Member, thank you. The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u162	You are asking us first of all about the question of preserving agricultural land from land and about the assent, a specificity of the overseas countries. As a reminder, the useful agricultural area per 100 inhabitants is in La Réunion of 4.8 hectares compared to 41.6 in Hexagon. The need to preserve land and agricultural land has led to the introduction of the assent of the CDPENAF, a provision specific to overseas countries, but with the aim of limiting itself to this objective in order to avoid the Commission's role replacing that of decision-makers. The very strong land pressure has made this legislative provision useful. As you know, the debates on this issue, within the framework of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, known as ELAN, have been numerous and nourished. The parliamentarians then wished to reaffirm their commitment to this system, which preserves land, particularly agricultural land in the overseas regions. This measure, which is used in urban planning documents, has already shown its effectiveness. It does not prevent local consultations, which are necessary and must be as thorough as possible. In this context, a conference on agricultural land issues will be held in October. Minister Lecornu is of course very attached to it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u163	Yes, I can tell.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u164	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... and we will also be vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u165	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u166	[[Mathilde Panot and Marie-George Buffet applaud]] In March 2018, with Monique Iborra, we alerted you about the dysfunctions related to our EHPADs and proposed a plan to rebuild them, in order to recreate sense, care and connection and to end institutional abuse. But when one report does not like – even if it is welcomed by all the players in the sector – you ask for another report, then another. And with the relationships you chain the postponements, and you give up, over and over again. At the beginning of 2019, Agnès Buzyn announced a law for autumn 2019. It was then discussed in January 2020 and then in the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u167	It's all com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u168	In the summer of 2020, Minister Veran, you promised a law by the end of 2020, but by the end of 2020, Emmanuel Macron postponed it to early 2021 and then to before the summer. Last week, the law was officially buried. Of course, the covid-19 crisis went through that. This pandemic has acted as a sign of dysfunction. For example, fragile people, the elderly, were the first victims of the virus. But most of all, they have been victims of the lack of staff in our institutions and of the Government's refusal to act since 2017. A hecacomb. Meanwhile, the suffering of residents and caregivers benefits the results of private groups that benefit from your inaction. Minister, time is running out. Now we are not dealing with institutional abuse anymore, but with government abuse. Last Thursday, with President Mélenchon, we met with Ms. Guillon in her EHPAD, following her questioning about the end of life. His testimony, clear and straightforward, confirms the urgency of passing legislation and of taking into account the proposals in the report that I have submitted with Mrs Iborra. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] When are you going to act? When is a law, with our recommendations, to stop this abuse of our elders and their caregivers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u169	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u170	Madam Member, you are too familiar with this subject so that I am obliged to remind you of what we have been doing for the past year, despite the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u171	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u172	You're saying we're not doing anything. However, we have allocated a fraction of CSG, the widespread social contribution of €2.4 billion to the autonomy branch that we created last year, which will meet the needs of the next two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u173	This branch is an empty shell!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u174	The reality is that the commitments made during the Ségur de la santé, in investments and in salary enhancements for staff – an issue to which I know you are sensitive – exceed €6 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u175	How is it funded? With what recipes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u176	Of course, you can say it's nothing. But no Government has put so much money into old age policy, which is supposedly abandoned. We want to go further – the Prime Minister has recently reaffirmed it. Through the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022, we want to make tangible progress in the area of self-government before the end of the legislature, that is, soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u177	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u178	This year we will be deploying a new and strong step forward in this reform. Like last year, you will be associated with it. In fact, you have been able to vote for the 15% home helpers' upgrades, which come into effect in ten days' time. This new stage must be that of realization, which will allow the greatest number of people to age at home, surrounded by their own,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u179	What about the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u180	... and will have a direct impact on the 11 million family caregivers for whom we are developing an ambitious strategy. The loss of autonomy deserves more than polemics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u181	Oh, no! That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u182	They're not polemics!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u183	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It concerns everyone: everyone in this House, like every Frenchman who looks at us, has a difficult situation on this subject. I prefer actions rather than statements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u184	Move, there's nothing to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u185	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u186	My question is to Mrs Bérangère Abba, Secretary of State for Biodiversity. During the previous two terms, despite the fine speeches, the successive majorities had never stopped beating the countryside. If only one example were to be given, I shall cite this desire, what I say, to reduce the number of rural communes. As the strong method did not work, the Ottoman strangler was used, reducing local finances year after year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since the beginning of this Parliament, we have put an end to this situation. Finance, law to recall trust in local elected officials, rural agenda, agriculture, hunting, agricultural retreat, fight against glottophobia, fibre deployment, recovery plan: no rural sector has been forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u187	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u188	Yet, despite these efforts, part of the countryside is still rumbling, we heard it this weekend when 50,000 hunters marched on the street, supported by thousands of elected officials, some of whom are on these benches, including those of the majority. Here's how I feel. When I talk about emotion in my grandfather's eyes, they say "barbaric practice." When I talk about the joy of finding my friends, they look at me as a blood-thirsty alcoholic because the only thing we know about my activity is a sketch of the Unknown.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u189	Baratin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u190	It is as if I were asking the Government a question about the army with La Grande Vadrouille as the only reference. And when I talk about this hedge that I plant for my children, they answer "bird directive". Finally, while I'm talking about love, I'm told about the color of the sofas.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u191	You should leave the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u192	But when will we become aware that our country is as rich with its intangible heritage as with its material heritage? Rurality is not an address, it is a culture. The idea that "France must be an opportunity for all" is part of the political project of this majority. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that you will tell us what you intend to do to ensure that the million French hunters, but also, incidentally, the millions of rural people, understand that we will do everything in France, but also at European level and abroad, so that our country remains a chance for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u193	Political recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u194	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u195	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Member of the European Parliament, you are touching us in the heart – if, however, we needed such a reminder. We do not want to allow opposition, mistrust, an alleged divide between urban and rural.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u196	You've accentuated it like never before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u197	Of course, we have not been working on this for many years, and I thank you for that. We are working with Minister Jacqueline Gourault and Secretary of State Joël Giraud at the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, as well as with the agricultural sector, to achieve reconciliation around these issues. We are also working on the issues related to hunting, which you mentioned. We follow very clear lines. It is necessary – and this is our responsibility – to go through appeasement and objectivation. A clear European legislative framework, the good state of conservation or not of the populations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u198	That's not exactly what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u199	... the concept of adaptive management, the selectivity of certain species, animal welfare, which rightly took part in the public debate: these are all elements that must allow us to have this debate in good intelligence, each one having to find its place in a diverse France, which we love as it is. Mechanisms have been created for hunting, but not just because ruralness cannot, of course, be reduced to this activity. Within the framework of the rural agenda, we strive to promote rural amenities through France Services houses, the deployment of 4G,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u200	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u201	...the fight against medical deserts or the so-called "thousand cafés" initiative. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We work with all actors in rural life because, before we are parliamentarians or members of the Government, we live in rural life. Let's not let mistrust or cleavages settle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u202	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u203	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u204	He's not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u205	That's too bad! On 1 November, thirty psychiatric beds should be closed in the public mental health institution of Flanders in Bailleul. For several months, staff have been fighting against this decision, which calls into question the sustainability of the institution and the quality of care provided. I would like to reaffirm my support here. Bailleul is unfortunately not an isolated case. In the North, the shortage of psychiatrists is such that institutions are forced to close beds or merge to ensure a minimum of patient care guarantees. At the country level, 30 per cent of the positions of practitioners are vacant; Many in-house positions, in particular, are not filled. Psychiatry no longer seduces students. How could it be otherwise given the level of wages and the deterioration of working conditions? This has not been the case since yesterday, and the warnings have been numerous for several years. But, since 2020, the urgency has increased. The epidemic of covid-19 has put, and continues to test the mental health of the French. The foundations of mental health and psychiatry, initially postponed, will finally be held at the end of the month, without some of the professionals being consulted – I am thinking of psychologists. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Minister, don't make it an empty shell. We are lucid: by the end of the mandate, we will have no major framework legislation or ambitious plan for our entire mental health care system. I'm sorry. However, the next budget for social security must be an opportunity to make some progress. What are you planning to ensure the sustainability of our system and our institutions, such as that of Bailleul? It is a question of public health and, beyond that, a political, ethical question, which refers us to our responsibility as a society towards the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u206	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u207	The problems facing psychiatry and child psychiatry in our country are not new. As you said, these sectors have been gradually abandoned for 30 years. Nor is our attention to the issues related to these sectors and to the problems faced by patients new. As early as 2018, Agnès Buzyn, in the road map on mental health and psychiatry, began to mention this problem, setting three priorities: prevention, the path of care and social inclusion. Since then, we have undertaken several actions on each of these axes. To mention only child psychiatrists – perhaps the subject that I know best with regard to my responsibilities, so to the prism that is mine – we have allocated resources so that, in the territories, according to needs, places in day hospitals are created and mobile teams set up to intervene with patients. Every year since 2018, we have created ten posts of assistant head of clinic in child psychiatristry. The crisis has exacerbated the challenges facing the sector and has had an impact on the mental health of some of our fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable, young people and children. That is why we quickly set up consultations with psychologists – as you recalled –, on the one hand with the student population with Frédérique Vidal, on the other hand with children who are experiencing difficulties during this period of crisis with the introduction, after the visit of the President of the Republic to Reims, of a shrink package of ten consultations reimbursed by the social security. But we need to go even further, and I lack time to detail the foundations of mental health and psychiatry on 27 and 28 September: all the topics will be discussed, whether they are training, organisation or remuneration, in consultation also with psychologists' associations. Everything will be put on the table, everything will be discussed and announced in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u208	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor for the few seconds she does not wish to abandon us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u209	Just the time to say that the staff of the public mental health facility in Bailleul would like to meet someone who gives them a real answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u210	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u211	Prime Minister, I would like to alert you to the fate of the communes and communities of communes that have opened vaccination centres in our territories far from the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u212	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u213	They were organized last winter for this purpose by civicism, to help protect our fellow citizens from the virus. I would like to pay tribute to these local elected officials, to these territorial staff and to the volunteers, including the Red Cross, who have enabled health professionals to provide vaccination against covid-19 in good conditions, with a view to territorial proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u214	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u215	For small communities, the burden is heavy: the provision of rooms, staff and equipment for the benefit of their citizens, of course, but also of those in neighbouring territories. They were then provided with compensation up to the level of their investments... Their hope has been undermined. The funding arrangements for vaccination centres set up by local and regional authorities contain a major and unfair restriction on the eligibility criteria, i.e. the opening of at least five days a week. This criterion penalizes vaccination centres in small communities that have not needed to open so much, given their population and demand. It is unusual for these communities to be excluded from repayments while they have also incurred heavy expenditures on their budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u216	What an injustice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u217	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, do you intend to lift this criterion, which penalizes small communities in our rural territories and is not suited to the realities of the land, so that the "whatever it costs" does not forget any worthy territory of the Republic and applies to all those who have committed themselves for the good of all? It's a matter of territorial fairness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u218	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u219	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] As for me, Mr President, I do not oppose the small communes to the large communes in their involvement in this vaccination campaign, on the contrary: each one has been up to it, know it. I am very sensitive to the involvement of small municipalities, having also been elected from a rural territory: they allow, both logistically and financially, access to care, including vaccination, our shared concern. I take this opportunity to thank the communities; The role of our schools has, of course, been instrumental in enabling the development of community centres and in helping people, especially the most remote elders, to reach these centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u220	Come to the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u221	We owe the success of the vaccination campaign to all the caregivers, to all the staff mobilized and to the political voluntarism of our mayors, especially in rural areas. I would like to point out that the implementation of the vaccination campaign has been based on four main principles, first of all, I want to be very clear on this point, namely that of the compensation by the State of the additional costs incurred by the vaccination activity. It was therefore necessary to define these additional costs for all relevant structures, communities, health institutions or local health professional communities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rules of care have been clearly defined, in close connection with representatives of local elected representatives, especially rural ones. Thus, the provision of premises and community personnel does not give rise to compensation by the State because they would have been mobilized in normal times, i.e. outside the crisis; On the other hand, equipment purchases, cleaning costs and hirings specifically related to vaccination operations are covered. These rules are the same for all vaccination centres. In the event of residual difficulties, I invite you to go back to specific situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u222	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u223	[[New applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Minister, we need to review your deeply unfair rules. Territorial injustice is on the way, and I deeply regret it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u224	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u225	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u226	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.50 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m. with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u227	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u228	The Speaker of the National Assembly received a letter from Sébastien David, Member of Parliament for the third riding of Aveyron, informing him that he was resigning his term of office as a Member of Parliament as of Monday, September 13, 2021. Act was taken from his resignation in the Official Journal of Wednesday, 15 September 2021. The President of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left informed the President of the National Assembly that Ms Marie-George Buffet was appointed Secretary of the Assembly to replace Mr Gabriel Serville.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u229	The next item is the debate on the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security (No. 4387, 4442).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u230	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u231	I am pleased to introduce the bill on criminal responsibility and internal security, which I have the pleasure and honour of defending with my colleagues Gérald Darmanin and Marlene Schiappa. On 14 April, a decision of the Court of Cassation confirmed the declaration of criminal irresponsibility of the murderer of Mrs. Sarah Halimi by acknowledging that the author had acted under the blow of the abolition of his discernment, while consecrating the anti-Semitic character of this crime. This decision led to a legitimate sense of injustice. However, it is necessary to recall that the law has been respected: today, when a defendant has caused himself to lose his discernment, he cannot answer to the judges for the acts he committed at the time. This case, as the Advocate General of the Court of Cassation rightly pointed out in her requisitions, revealed a flaw in our law: the impossibility for the judge to distinguish situations according to the origin of the loss of discernment. Faced with the misunderstanding caused by this legal vacuum, the President of the Republic gave me a mandate to change the regime of criminal irresponsibility by filling its gaps. As a result, I conducted extensive consultations with psychiatrists, magistrates, lawyers and religious representatives. I also fed on the findings of the trans-party flash mission led by Naïma Moutchou and Antoine Savignat, which also stressed with relevance the need to change our law. The consensus thus reached was based on two points: first, the need to amend the criminal law; Then, the extreme prudence that had to be exercised in order to meet our constitutional requirements. In democracy, we don't judge fools. On the other hand, and this is the whole subject of our debates, we must be able to distinguish between the individual who, suffering from psychiatric pathology, commits reprehensible acts and the one who owes his madness to the voluntary consumption of psychotropic products. I have read several times in the press that the provisions of this text do not fully satisfy anyone. But what would we have heard if we had offered either to judge the madmen, or totally cosmetic measures? On the contrary, we have managed to find a subtle balance between the demand for our great principles and the will expressed by the French. Because, as I recall, it is society that does the right, not the other way around. Thus, this bill proposes two major developments. First of all, it introduces a single derogation from the regime of criminal irresponsibility, when the abolition of discernment results from voluntary intoxication in order to give one's courage. When the respondent is drugged or alcoholized, it will no longer be the subject of a declaration of criminal irresponsibility. Giving oneself the means of a transition to the perfectly assumed act should no longer allow the perpetrator to escape criminal responsibility. This is certainly an exceptional case, but it would be inconceivable, for example, that terrorists who intoxicate the Captagon to go to the end of their murderous logic could not be tried. As you know, this assumption was not established in the Halimi case. To better understand similar situations, two new offences will be created. These offences will severely punish the deliberate consumption of psychotropic drugs, which led to the state of madness under which the perpetrator committed either violence or homicide. However, as the Council of State pointed out in its opinion, an offence must also be characterized by its intent. It is therefore necessary that the individual who commits these acts after taking psychoactive substances should have become aware that he or she was deliberately endangering others. The debates in committee have enabled us to reach a compromise that preserves the constitutionality of the new infringement and more broadly apprehends the situations concerned. It is this solution that will be proposed to you by the rapporteur, Naïma Moutchou. The penalties will also be increased to 15 years' imprisonment if the homicide was committed by a person who has already been declared irresponsible of a homicide committed in the same circumstances. Finally, as the work in committee has shown, a number of offences were initially not covered by these new autonomous offences, as your colleagues Avia and Mazars pointed out. The Government would therefore support the extension of the new offences to cases of rape, torture and barbarism, and arson resulting in death. I would also like to thank the Members who have enabled us to enrich the text in committee and who will make further improvements in the forthcoming debates: I am thinking in particular of Coralie Dubost and Jean Terlier, but also of the Members Blandine Brocard and Dimitri Houbron. The bill also contains procedural provisions aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the criminal response. I am thinking in particular of cases in which the identity of the respondent evolves as the investigation proceeds. Indeed, without precise and established identification, the criminal law cannot apply. Three major and well-identified issues led us to want to change the procedure. On the one hand, criminal acts remain unpunished, and that is incomprehensible to the victims. On the other hand, adults may call themselves minors and thus benefit from protective measures that should be reserved for the most vulnerable. On the other hand, minors are not recognized as minors in criminal proceedings and are therefore excluded from child protection schemes. We have a responsibility to put in place effective tools for caring for these people in order to meet the legitimate expectations of all judicial actors and, above all, of our citizens. In order to implement an appropriate judicial response, it is first necessary, as MEPs Eliaou and Savignant had suggested in their report, to give each other the means to identify the respondent accurately. Identifying juvenile offenders is also an effective means of combating networks that force young people to refuse fingerprinting. The fingerprinting, as provided for in this text, will obviously be accompanied by procedural guarantees, moreover strengthened with regard to minors, in order to comply, again, with our constitutional requirements. This bill will then allow accused persons brought before a criminal court to be kept at the disposal of the courts, who have declared themselves incompetent, as a result of an error in their majority or minority, for the time to redirect them to the competent court. This is also a proposal from the Eliaou-Savignat report, and I would like to thank them for that. Indeed, this provision will fill a gap, which, in the rule of law, leaves with impunity many acts of delinquency. It concerns two specific situations. First, some young offenders who were initially declared to be major eventually have their minority recognized by the correctional court; It is imperative that they be taken care of and not released to the streets, where they are unfortunately at risk of recidivism. The use of short detention must be specially motivated and the minor must be brought before a specialized court within 24 hours, which will order his care by the judicial protection of young people and the child protection services. Secondly, the measure will apply to offenders initially declared minors who have their majority finally recognized by the Children's Court. They will now have to be held accountable for their actions before the correctional court, which will be seized immediately. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] Finally, as the Prime Minister said last spring, this bill creates specific incriminations, aggravating the repression of acts of violence committed against those who ensure our security in public space. Indeed, it is no longer tolerable that their civic commitment makes them targets. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Jean-Michel Mis, for allowing us to clarify the scope of the agents concerned, thanks to the addition of firefighters and customs officers, who intervene on the public road and are also particularly exposed. The Government would also be in favour of the addition of the rural guards, since their missions were in line with those of the municipal police. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LT and Agir ens]] These are the main measures that we will have to discuss, with regard to the articles that fall within the remit of the Ministry of Justice. They all have the same objective: to improve the criminal response to meet the legitimate expectations of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u232	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u233	After the guarding of the seals, which has returned to the most essential parts of the text, it is up to me to mention some measures which may seem of lesser importance with regard to the provisions concerning criminal irresponsibility, but which, in concrete terms, will improve the safety of our fellow citizens by protecting the forces of law and order in their action and by giving them additional means to ensure their security, in full coherence with the texts which you have voted very widely, in particular the proposal for a law on global security. These measures are also directly related to the unprecedented increase in the appropriations of the Security Mission, in the budget allocated to the Ministry of the Interior,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u234	The increase in delinquency too is unprecedented!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u235	...for 1.7 billion euros over the last four years, which will be followed by a further increase of 1.5 billion euros in the budget for 2022 that I will have the honour to defend. Everyone should rejoice: we have never put so many resources in the police, in justice, in the armies, that is, in the regal armament of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u236	After Sarkozy reduced them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u237	Let's say there are those who talk about it, and those who do. This text gives you the opportunity to strengthen the work of the law enforcement agencies on four points. First of all, it is a question of combating the refusal to comply, which rots the lives of our fellow citizens and the police, since these offences occur every 17 minutes in the national territory and sometimes cause death – for example, that of 26-year-old Constable Mélanie Lemée on the roads of the Lot-et-Garonne or that of police officer Éric Monroy, in Le Mans, after a driver refused to stop during a night intervention. Yes, a refusal every 17 minutes, of course, causes many injuries, many deaths among our fellow citizens. Road crimes, such assaults, sometimes take another form, that of urban rodeos. Parliamentary groups The LaREM, Dem and LR groups have worked particularly to improve the mechanisms in this area – either by imagining additional legal means or by studying the application of the law of 3 August 2018. This law works. Mr. Keeper of the Seals had the opportunity to present the criminal response, particularly reinforced since one year, since in 2020, nearly 600 devices were destroyed; Most importantly, the number of public actions and convictions related to urban rodeos has increased fivefold.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u238	By ten, even!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u239	This is probably not enough, as it lacks the precautionary measures requested by parliamentarians in the information report on the impact assessment of this law. Moreover, the quantum of penalties for refusal to comply is currently too small; We repeat it, in order to enable the police, gendarmes, public prosecutors and magistrates to respond to these facts. So far, this crime has not been punished to the same level as the other most serious road crimes. Finally, we allow for a much better identification of the perpetrators of these offences – which cause death, as I have repeated several times. We will be able to find them. In this way, we protect law enforcement and continue the fight against road crime, as necessary, because it is very important. Secondly, we are creating with this text the operational reserve of the national police. This provision, contained in the comprehensive security bill tabled by Mr. Jean-Michel Fauvergue and Ms. Alice Thourot, was censored by the Constitutional Council for reasons not of substance but of form, as the Council considered it to be a legislative cavalier and invited the Government to resume the ab initio measure in a bill. Of which act. We are happy to present this weapon to you, which will strengthen the link between the police and the population – a similar measure has worked extremely well for the national gendarmerie, as you have seen, with a doubling of the reserve force. The direct link with the population is very important for the strength of the national police. This will allow our fellow citizens who wish to enter the national police a few days a month, as is already the case in the gendarmerie, and to increase the number of people on the ground as soon as the budget for 2022 is implemented. The interventions of our fellow citizens can probably focus on topics – we do not always want to enter the police or the gendarmerie to carry out road checks, fight drugs or carry out educational work in schools. Some have a special vocation: I am thinking of the fight against domestic violence, the protection of children or road education. We will therefore propose that it be possible for our fellow citizens to engage in the operational reserve without wearing any weapons or uniforms, and for the theme they have chosen. This is the meaning of the citizen struggle that many lead, in the police as elsewhere. Third subject: the image. She's everywhere, Mr. Keeper of the Seals knows that. It allows us to judge, gauge, learn, understand the digital world in which we live – including in the field of security, thus justice. Three types of provisions are concerned. First, with regard to the video surveillance of persons in police custody, the opinion of the Constitutional Council, such as several reports prepared by the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty or by deputies, had been taken into account, and the work carried out in the commission of laws on that point had been pleased. It has resulted in a balance between respecting the privacy of individuals and, do not hide them, preventing suicides, assaults or difficulties that may occur in police custody. The Government is not in favour of having the lawyer of the person in custody be warned, because this would inefficiently increase the procedure as we try to simplify it – we will have the opportunity to return to it. Regarding drones, I had the opportunity to say that in France, everyone could fly them, except the police and the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u240	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u241	It is therefore normal to provide a legal framework enabling them to do so. I thank the Council of State for having validated it and welcome our discussion on the administrative or judicial conditions for such use of drones and other aircraft for filming. Finally, the cameras embedded in the vehicles of the security forces will enhance the safety of our citizens. In places without video protection, these cameras, oriented towards the road, will make it possible to secure police and gendarmerie operations as far as possible and to find the perpetrators of criminal acts, with a view to bringing them to justice. I would like to take this opportunity to announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the provisions you voted for the pedestrian cameras only a few weeks ago have already been applied: the fleet has been completely renewed with equipment of more than twelve hours autonomy, as I had committed myself to doing. Each police and gendarmerie brigade will be able to benefit by the end of October, as the deployment has been extremely effective, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic, which you have probably heard. The images of these pedestrian cameras cannot be altered, in accordance with the law for a global security that preserves freedoms. They will be registered by police officers and gendarmes during their interventions and will be able to be consulted by them to write, inter alia, reports for the purposes of justice. This is a great step forward, which I wanted to report to Parliament. Finally, after the fight against road crimes and rodeos, the establishment of the operational reserve of the national police and the use of images, I turn to arms control. We learned from the drama of Ambert, where three gendarmes were cowardly murdered last winter; the increasing number of cases of domestic violence, where forcible use of weapons which they have not declared or which they hold because of complex administrative situations; the increase in the presence of weapons in drug trafficking. We therefore submit to your approval a number of legislative provisions aimed, inter alia, at improving and strengthening the national register of prohibitions on the acquisition and possession of weapons. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This text will therefore give the law enforcement agencies new means of protecting us. It will strengthen the link between the French and their police and finally give a legal status, which we have been thinking about for so many months, to the capture of images. Finally, it responds forcefully and in an interesting way to the increase in acts against persons, including domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u242	I call Mrs Naïma Moutchou, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u243	The question of criminal responsibility is often at the root of the most lively debates, even though it must be recognized that the vast majority of decisions on irresponsibility are consensus. But there are still cases in which the expertise is contradictory or the decisions are unsatisfactory, because the law is not clear. The decision of the Court of Cassation of 14 April in the case involving Sarah Halimi made a great deal of noise. By confirming that Sarah Halimi's murderer should be considered criminally irresponsible, the Court re-launched the debate on this old but often challenged principle of law. Although it is in accordance with the law, this decision has struck us. Our reaction is legitimate: is it normal that a consumption of cannabis that triggers a delusional puff that causes injury to others or even death, in other words, that causes a crime or a crime, is it normal, I say, that it remains unpunished? I say no: it is a fault, which must be punished. We therefore need to redress this injustice. I would point out from the outset that what will be worth for illegal substances will also be alcohol and medicines. I have the responsibility to report three sections of this bill, which contains twenty clauses. As in committee, I note that they will have inspired you in particular, since more than 40% of the amendments tabled concern them. I recall a principle which, for me and for you, I believe, will remain inviolable, and which the keeper of seals has recalled: whoever is considered insane cannot be held responsible for his actions. This is a red line: there is no question of penalizing the sick. However, we need to fill the gaps in the law. What about the one who decided to go mad with psychoactive substances, the one who does not suffer his madness but provokes it? This is the question to which Antoine Savignat and I have endeavoured to respond, as part of a flash mission which we presented the conclusions in the Committee on the Laws in June. I am pleased that the Government's view is the same as ours. We agreed that we should not touch on Article 122-1 of the Criminal Code, which defines the principle of criminal irresponsibility. We also agree on the need to take special care not to blame those with pathology. Their place is not in prison: they must be treated. Finally, and this is the purpose of article 2, one must be able to hold back and punish the previous fault: one will not continue to condemn for murder or violence anyone who has lost all discernment, but he will be condemned for the deliberate taking of toxics, alcohol or medicines, all the more so as the effects will have been tragic. There is a will to advance and improve the law. I saw this during the examination in committee, which gave rise to high-quality debates, and I thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Article 1 is not intended to answer the Halimi case. It includes a device that specifically targets murderers and terrorists who, in their modus operandi, use drugs to give themselves courage in order to act. Their project is active, the taking of substances is only a way to help each other commit the crime. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This bill is not completed. We have enriched it in committee by, in particular, adopting amendments defended by Coralie Dubost and Jean Terlier, from the LaREM Group, and by Cécile Untermaier, on the procedure applicable before the Chamber of Investigation, in favour of the civil parties. I hope that the discussions that begin will provide an opportunity to further improve it together. We will work with the humility that is required in a matter as technical as it is human, at the limits of law and health, in which the balance of criminal law must always be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u244	Mr Jean-Michel Mis, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u245	We are gathered to consider a bill with a clear objective: to empower law enforcement officials to ensure the safety of our compatriots and their own security. This ambition, which we all share, underpins the consistency of all the provisions of the text, of which I have the honour to be the rapporteur, with regard to Articles 4 to 11. Achieving a balance that respects fundamental freedoms requires careful and rigorous work in the light of the constitutional requirements that characterize our rule of law. As legislators, it is up to us to collectively determine the legal framework that can protect as effectively as possible all the internal security forces that act on a daily basis for the benefit of the general interest, sometimes at the risk of their lives. This text is a first response to the many avenues for reflection that have emerged from the consultations held since the beginning of the year, within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité. Without going into the details of each provision, let me present the main measures contained in Titles II to IV. Their examination by the Law Committee last week helped to clarify, complement and improve many of them, often from a trans-partisan perspective, which I welcome. Under Title II, article 4 aggravates the sanctions imposed on aggressors of the security forces. In committee, a consensus was reached to include firefighters and customs officers in the perimeter. After reflection, I will propose that you include the rural guards, whose contribution to the security continuum has been consistently recognized during this legislature. Article 6 transforms the current civilian reserve of the National Police into an operational reserve, following the model of its gendarmerie counterpart. Improving the attractiveness of the police reserve means increasing and diversifying recruitment, in order to achieve the ambitious target of 30,000 reservists in the next decade. Articles 7 to 9, which make up Title III, define a legislative framework applicable to several image capture devices, including video surveillance of police custody cells, images recorded by airborne cameras, such as those installed on drones, or cameras embedded in police and gendarmerie vehicles. These articles legally secure their use in the light of the requirements inherent in the respect of the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. I can only welcome the provisions in Article 8 on the use of airborne cameras. They are in fact in line with a recommendation in the report on the use of new technologies in the field of security, which I recently had the honour of presenting to the Prime Minister. These articles draw all the consequences from the decision of the Constitutional Council of 20 May on the so-called comprehensive security law. In addition, the work carried out in the committee has usefully strengthened the procedural safeguards that govern the use of these techniques. Finally, Title IV, consisting of articles 10 to 11, deals with the control of arms and explosives. It provides for certain adjustments, with a view to improving the usefulness of the national register of prohibitions on the acquisition and possession of weapons, FINIADA, by broadening its scope. At the initiative of the Government, several amendments were also adopted during the committee review to strengthen administrative controls over the acquisition and possession of weapons. Unfortunately, we know how important these issues are, particularly with regard to domestic violence, as we have been brutally reminded of in recent months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main provisions of the bill that I have the honour to report. Each of them aims to strengthen the security of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u246	Mr Jean-François Eliaou, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u247	We are once again meeting to discuss the main principles of our criminal law, the functioning of justice and the prerogatives of law enforcement. Our majority has worked extensively in these three areas for the past four years, and this text will bring concrete solutions to improve the safety of the French and the daily lives of the women and men on the ground who inspired its authors. Title V, which I have the honour to report, contains several provisions directly inspired by the parliamentary work carried out in this House. This is particularly the case for two articles which are particularly close to my heart, because they are the legislative translation of a work of several months, carried out as part of the information mission on the security problems associated with the presence in the territory of unaccompanied minors, of which I was rapporteur with Antoine Savignat. Our assembly can be honoured to have thoroughly modernized the juvenile criminal justice system a few months ago. However, better sanctioning acts that disturb public peace requires adjustments. While we must never depart from the protective principles that guarantee a criminal response and care adapted to the frailties of these multi-traumatized children who have had a chaotic migratory journey, we must also not ignore the need for justice for the victims of the delinquent acts they commit. First, article 12 allows for the detention or detention in custody of accused persons brought before an incompetent court, because of an error in the assessment of their majority or minority. They may be kept at the disposal of the courts until they are brought before the competent court. In the rule of law, they are systematically released, which ultimately leads to them being put back on the street, even in the hands of those who exploit them. Secondly, article 16 allows for compulsory reporting where such an operation is the only way to identify a person suspected of having committed a crime or an offence punishable by at least three years' imprisonment and five years' imprisonment for minors. This operation, which is planned for both adults and minors over the age of 13, will be strictly supervised. The discussions during the committee review have already alleviated some legitimate fears. Two other juvenile justice provisions were not discussed in articles 13 and 14. Title V includes other measures that do not concern juvenile justice. Thus, Article 15 extends, under certain conditions, the procedure of a flat-rate fine to the offence of simple theft. The time savings that this already tried procedure allows for other offences fully justify this. Article 17 allows sworn private guards to record certain traffic offences by way of a report. These new prerogatives will be regulated in practice by a list of offences determined by decree. Article 18 complements the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against motorised rodeos, which we voted unanimously. The provisions contained therein are based on the work which our colleague Natalia Pouzyreff has carried out for the past four years. With Robin Reda, she reported on the August 3, 2018 assessment mission, whose findings informed our panel discussions. Finally, Title VI, of which I am also rapporteur, aims to simplify the introduction of corrective measures and sanctions by the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. During the committee review, we amended this section by drawing directly on the work of the Senate, which had already spoken on these provisions; We will again propose some adjustments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In its version of our committee work, this bill is both useful, coherent and balanced; I hope that the debates will win your support and that you will vote massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u248	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u249	Mr Minister of the Interior, I fully agree with you: the subject we are going to discuss is of major importance to our society, a society of the common, where everyone must be able to find his place and develop with dignity, in complete serenity, where everyone must be able to feel safe. At the time of the security auction, when politicians on all sides manipulate this subject for electoral purposes, it must be redefined in a precise and dispassionate manner. Security, on a purely semantic level, consists of the confident and quiet state of mind of a person who believes himself or herself and feels safe from danger. Originally, this term refers first and foremost to a state of mind: serenity. For a long time, Greek philosophical schools, skeptical or skeptical, attracted students by highlighting the security they would find within them: a mental state of ataraxia. In this regard, article 2 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen refers to a fundamental right to security, the guarantor of which is the prefect, the only high official to whom the Constitution refers and whose role is clearly defined: to ensure security, public order and social cohesion, which implies defining security as a means of living together. A turning point took place a few years ago when, by attaching the word "public" to that of "security", the concept of public order was integrated into the field of security, which gave it a broader dimension. Public security therefore aims to protect the population of a State from internal threats. In fact, what exactly have we been talking about in our society for some time now? Why do some try to put people against each other, systematically considering that the enemy is the other, especially when the other is different? We are evolving in an environment where, by seeking pseudo-security, we exacerbate hatreds, tensions, rejection of the other, because it is different and not because it constitutes a threat; an environment where, in order to draw up a portrait of what is an internal threat, we infuse the beast with hatred, rejection of others, racism and anti-Semitism. Because we want to name a culprit, we identify our own children, on the grounds that they would not have been born in the right place, that they would not have the right skin colour or that they would not have the right name. By means of a secure auction, some feel allowed to march proudly with a clear and explicit sign above their head where, around the words: "But who? There are names designating pseudo-cuttables of what we do not know when, in reality, these names are those of victims, guilty of bearing a name that might suggest that they believe in a God, and in an unpleasant way for some. These people are the victims of an antisemitism that recalls the darkest times in our common history, an antisemitism that we thought we would never see again and yet reappears. The responsibility for this worldliness lies with us, as well as with all those who consider the electoral stakes to be superior to our humanity, who, running after the extreme right, designate our social model as the enemy to be defeated, and who, concerned with their election or re-election, forget the weight of our darkest past. By confusing everything, considering that everything can be the subject of political chamilleries and by concealing the responsibility for what the State owes and what the State can, we come to this type of situation: unacceptable, unheard-of, indefensible, far from social cohesion and what my political family advocates in this field. I would therefore like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, of the threat to us, and it is internal. We are our own internal threat, the threat of an explosion of the social cohesion of our country. The extremist drifts are dangerously insinuated in every home, in every head, on many television channels, even in televised debates in prime time, as will be the case next Thursday night, on a television channel that is very closely followed, at a time when many of our fellow citizens will be watching it, which I regret and denounce. I regret and denounce that some are yielding to populist sirens. I regret and denounce that the media temptation is stronger than the dyke, than the Republican rampart. We are our own internal threat. The Republican bulwark is the only one able to restore meaning to our public action and extinguish the fire of hatred of the filthy beast. The Republic is the only one able to bring us together, at least – at least I hope – around a common goal. How can I preserve her? I hope that we will join on this point, at least on some benches. I would therefore like to pay a special tribute to the forces of law and order, which are objectively ill-developed, even though the institution is extremely mobilized and committed to every challenge, every tragedy and every attack on our society. This institution is suffering. She suffers and recedes in the European and international rankings, she has become the poor parent of the Republic of which she is the guardian: suicides, lack of resources, lack of manpower, culture of intervention encouraged by a deleterious statistical obsession supposed to guide the action but which, combined with the rest, degrades the image of the forces of law and order, especially vis-à-vis those they are supposed to serve and protect, the citizens. Thus, as the law enforcement forces suffer, as a growing number of citizens feel stigmatized, as we become led into a safe drift by the most extremist and anti-republicans in our society, as we cling to an prevented public debate and as a result of ease and manipulation, shift into a simplistic logic – for or against the police – we must rise up. It is indeed unbearable to establish such a record of failure and to let go of the pelotus of hatred, to consider as inevitable the opposition, in the context of an election, between a republican political force and an extremist political force. It is unworthy of our political history, at least of mine, socialist history. In 1903, Jaurès already proclaimed: "In our modern France, what is the Republic? It's a great act of trust. To establish the Republic is to proclaim that millions of men will be able to draw the common rule of their action themselves; they will know how to reconcile freedom and law, movement and order. This debate challenges us to restore meaning to internal security, in connection with the Social Republic. It is our responsibility to reconnect with an ambitious and respectful vision to preserve our most precious common: the social bond. Insecurity is indeed an additional source of social injustice. Claire Hédon, Defender of Rights, gives an explicit warning in this regard: "We hear a small music that suggests that the solution to the problems we encounter would be to gnaw on the rights, the rights of foreigners, the social rights, especially of the poorest. Security policies are probably one of the fields where ideological differences are most striking between the right and the left. The famous "at the same time" of the new world, advocated in 2017, clearly does not apply in this regard. The instrumentalization of Beauvau's safety is a staggering example. Noting the difficulties of our society in terms of internal security, the President of the Republic has committed himself to a global Beauvau of security where, for seven months, we worked, auditioned, exchanged for a major text, which could reform the forces of law and order and our approach to security. In the end, we end up with an aborted text, killed in the egg by the electoralist ambition of the President still in office for a few months, announced for the next quinquennium, if this President is re-elected... Such a method is surprising: the vision of the common interest that it underlies is not entirely mine, and it does not correspond to the vision of the state that we defend. Colleagues, the forces of law and order deserve better than electoral manipulations; our children deserve better than these renunciations; Our fellow citizens deserve better than the safe auction we face. Despite the brevity of the text, the Socialist and Related Group has a global position on security, which it will continue to defend in the context of the budget debate: no excuses will then be allowed, nor any postponement with an electoral aim. On the other hand, advertising effects, already distilled in the press, are possible. At the time of "whatever it costs" and magic money, low-cost demagogy is made queen until the time of the passage to the caisse has rung. Our group has exchanged with the territorial elected representatives from all over France and is co-constructing proposals with them, which will be the subject of amendments to this text and in the finance bill: I have no doubt that you will be sensitive to it. Indeed, the strength of the territorial elected representatives, to which I know you are attached, is to know perfectly the realities on the ground, the difficulties of everyday life, the suffering of everyone. This force is also their weakness, as their power to act may be limited. We must therefore act to meet their just needs. In this way, we will defend several major axes within the framework of this text. The first is the ability of law enforcement agencies to act, which requires concrete resources and real numbers. When I find that some police stations – including one of them, which I know well – do not have heating for almost a year due to lack of a repair budget, I am amazed. How can public service agents be allowed to work under these conditions? When temperatures are below zero, as was the case last year, how do you think these women and men can work in good conditions? The second is the restoration of trust between law enforcement and citizens, an indispensable prerequisite that requires courage and determination. Reforming the IGPN – General Inspectorate of the National Police – for greater transparency in police action is an urgent need. It is not acceptable that potential abuses or errors – and they exist – committed by a police officer cannot be treated transparently and impartially. It takes courage to recognize shortcomings and overcome them: that is why we recognize the honour of commitment, and I have no doubt that the institution of the national police will agree to these objectives. I also have no doubt that, because it will be transparent and irreproachable, the identity check receipt can be introduced: this strong measure would be a hand stretched out to our children, to all our children, especially to those who feel stigmatized or excluded. The third is the fight against urban rodeos, which literally rot the lives of millions of people. Local elected officials and law enforcement officials are very committed to this issue, and we must empower them to combat such nuisances. Drones with cameras, in a judicial framework, are likely to be a consensual solution in this regard, as the work in committee has suggested. Motorized two-wheelers cannot remain in the dark corner of our public policies: urban rodeos, non-compliance with the road code, non-compliance with speed limits, non-compliance with pedestrian areas, non-compliance with the surroundings of schools, hospitals or crèches, non-compliance with signs and signs, non-compliance with parking bans: the list of offences that drive residents crazy is long. I would point out that I do not refer to all drivers of two-wheel motorized vehicles. We had, with technical control, a tool to stem these problems and to equip our country with an additional capacity to regulate this use. Now, for purely electoral purposes, I imagine – not to upset the bikers – you have retreated, which is incomprehensible. You did not upset the bikers, of course, but you have angry millions of other people who are asking you to introduce technical control of the motorized two-wheelers and to regulate their traffic conditions further. Finally, we will be particularly vigilant to ensure that the provisions of the law for comprehensive security censored by the Constitutional Council are not reinserted into this text. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I hope that we will succeed, ladies and gentlemen, in working towards the general interest. However, I denounce the seemingly limitless restriction of the constitutional right to amend, in favour of a government monologue: many of our amendments were declared inadmissible just before the start of the examination in public session, which is instructive when, I repeat, it is a constitutional right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u250	You obviously lack parliamentary experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u251	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u252	Your text contains in many ways, Mr. Keeper of Seals, Mr. Minister of the Interior, gaps and imperfections. It is not part of the global perspective that we would like to see in order to improve the safety of our fellow citizens. You have recalled, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that there is a refusal to comply every 17 minutes. We might add that an insult to a police officer occurs every thirty minutes, and that every day twenty-five police officers or gendarmes are injured. We could also evoke the immense emotion of Sarah Halimi's anti-Semitic murder. The answers you are bringing are obviously not commensurate with the deterioration of the security climate in our country, nor with this abominable crime which, by its anti-Semitic character, has struck our nation. Once again, you bring them answers from communicators, who are not up to the stakes. Nevertheless, we will not follow Mrs El Aaraje, whose words are staggering, narcotic: we would be our own internal threat... I also heard about a televised debate settling old accounts in the old plural left. This, of course, is not the subject. This bill contains provisions that, if they do not go far enough, move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u253	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u254	Oh, do not rejoice too quickly, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: these gauges will not solve a very serious, very dangerous situation in which we find ourselves. We will obviously not be able to approve this motion for rejection: we must debate these measures, hoping that one day you will have the courage to implement others, much stronger and more ambitious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u255	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u256	I listened very carefully to you, Mrs. El Aaraje: you've had some sacred lyrical flights...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u257	It wasn't lyrical!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u258	You have stirred up great and beautiful concepts, you have appealed to history. But it was, if you'll allow me the term, a little bit of stuff...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u259	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u260	I must admit that I am still looking for the link between your speech and the text before us. [[Smile at the bench of the commission]] That is a shame, because our debates in committee – in particular thanks to Mrs Untermaier, who is part of your group – have made it possible to move forward with finesse on a number of points. I hope that the debates in the Chamber will remain in place, in order to arrive at a balanced text, far from the demagogic postures of the left, which accuses us of safe and right-wing overbidding, which accuses us of not doing enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u261	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u262	I could almost take word for word from my colleague Blandine Brocard: this motion for a preliminary rejection is not one; We have not heard any arguments on the substance of the text, but rather a political or even a politician discourse that has no place in the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u263	Yes, I do! We're here to do politics, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u264	The debates in committee have enabled us, thanks to Cécile Untermaier and many others, from all groups, to enrich the text. On the form – because to ask for the rejection of the text beforehand is to refuse the debate – as on the substance, we will vote against this motion and we hope to be able to debate the articles quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u265	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u266	I, too, have not really understood the purpose of this motion. Such a motion is a serious procedural act, since we are asking for the rejection of the text without debate: we must therefore be opposed on substance to certain articles of the text. I would have liked to hear our colleague tell us – that would be perfectly legitimate – the reasons for his opposition to the measures, which we will discuss with the Government, regarding criminal irresponsibility, concerning the use of drones by the internal security forces, concerning the criminal justice of minors. A point of order is always an opportunity, indeed, to make politics: that is why we are here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u267	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u268	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u269	But to stigmatise one or the other, to raise extravagant positions or to raise debates whose actors are not present in this House is in my view out of the question. The independent UDI group will not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u270	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u271	We shall vote on this motion of rejection for substantive reasons. Since you say you haven't heard any arguments for 15 minutes, I'll try, in two minutes, to explain these reasons to you. The overwhelming majority of legal professionals, psychiatry and human rights associations reject this bill. They deplore a bad potpourri, which brings together provisions already censored by the Constitutional Council, without consistency, but of great danger. This is the seventh security law of the quinquennium, before an eighth that we are announced for this winter; It is one more text which gives itself no concrete means to solve problems which are ill-placed. According to the very terms of the explanatory statement of the bill, the Government claimed, inter alia, to reply after the Halimi case, "to the misunderstanding that this decision [of the Court of Cassation] provoked in part of the public opinion". However, the provisions of the bill do not apply to this matter and would not have changed anything at the end of the bill. What's all this for then? Well to say that we – that is, President-candidate Macron in the campaign for the election of 2022 – did something. This also weakens a fundamental principle of law, and it further stigmatizes people with psychiatric disorders. Thus, down from the recommendations of the Houillon-Raimbourg report, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty or the International Prison Observatory, and even the associations of victims and their families, there is nothing in this text that reinforces the support of the latter, nothing that reinforces the follow-up of people with psychiatric disorders; there is no massive recruitment of psychiatrists and psychologists, no increase in their remuneration; There's nothing on the scoping of legal expertise. The internal security side follows the same logic, that of "everything safe", to the detriment of the rights, freedom and security of citizens and even of public officials. From the abandonment of the principle, which is fundamental in law, from criminal irresponsibility to the violation of the right to privacy, to the questioning of the specialisation of juvenile justice or the privatization of regal police missions, this text is contrary to the principles of our democratic rule of law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u272	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u273	Our colleague El Aaraje asks a real question: what kind of society do we want? Do we want a safe society, where security laws are passed – we have voted many since 2016, and they haven't changed much in substance? Today we see polarists repainting themselves with various facts, some of which are sordid, we agree. But there is a constant: our country is one of the safest in the world, and blood crimes are increasingly rare. Why, then, do we not stop voting for increasingly repressive laws? Why do we always want to develop our arsenal? [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Some, I understand, would like us to live in a barracks. But it's not freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u274	A barracks where we speak regional languages, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u275	I do not necessarily say that for the majority, even though I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you are drawn into a safe drift, as a result of what we hear on certain social networks and on certain media groups. We must be aware of this, because this drift is increasing. Do we want to corse society, or do we want to appease it? Sometimes, we only go from vinegar to wounds, for example, by opposing the unemployed and entrepreneurs, or by making some in our society more favored than others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u276	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u277	Acrimony is rising. I do not think this bill is necessary or even timely. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u278	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, a request for a public vote is being submitted to me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u279	I would like to congratulate myself on having heard our colleague develop, by defending the motion for a preliminary rejection, fundamental questions on the role of security for the cohesion of the nation as well as for the development of human beings. Before we discuss the articles, we must ask these questions, in order to measure whether the bill responds to these very political issues. Yes, dear friends, we need to do politics in the National Assembly, contrary to what I heard earlier. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] This bill is the sixth on "internal security". Before addressing this discussion, I would have liked a real assessment of the implementation and effectiveness of previous laws. The accumulation of laws since 2017 does not in itself strengthen security! If there is to be security, we also need a fight for social equality. The police must be empowered, but we must also work on human relations in our society. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] This law will be added to others, and it will bring little. That is why the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u280	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u281	The La République group on the move will obviously vote against this motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to say to our colleague from the Socialist Group that I have no more than our colleague Pascal Brindeau understood the reasons why you tabled this motion for rejection. In substance, you are right, we must do politics; But when you stand up for a motion, you have to try to argue, to explain why it was tabled. On the form, to table such a motion is to ignore the many hours we have spent in committee debating these matters that are so important to our fellow citizens. [[Ms. Lamia El Aaraje protested]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I, too, was somewhat shocked by what you said. Talking about security is fuelling hatred and racism, you said. I'm sorry, but talking about security is protecting our fellow citizens. To talk about security is to protect our security forces. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You outlined a few small proposals, which would constitute the Socialist Party's security programme. You said you wanted "real numbers." I'm sorry to tell you, but we were the only ones to put 10,000 policemen and gendarmes back on the ground. You also said you wanted to restore trust between our fellow citizens and our law enforcement agencies. Well, rest assured: this bill creates the police operational reserve, which will participate in this return of trust – you will vote for it, I am sure. You said you wanted to fight against urban rodeos: once again, the measures in this bill will allow us to succeed, and I really encourage you to vote on them. Let us not forget the drones, the cameras, the increase in the budget of justice by more than 30%... and so many other measures taken since the beginning of the quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By tabling this motion of rejection, you refuse to face these problems that are so important to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u282	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u283	Mrs Lamia El Aaraje has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u284	Colleagues, I will answer you on form and substance. On the form, it was decided, at the beginning of the quinquennium, to merge the motion of rejection with the motion of referral to committee. Therefore, only a motion of rejection allows a preliminary debate to be opened. In substance, I am almost worried about your comments: they show an incomprehension of land. You're making an easy shortcut, Mr. Terlier, pretending that I would have said that talking about security was about racism. It's an amalgam, and that's absolutely not what I said. The concept of security is so fundamental, so at the heart of the Republic that we do not believe that it is useful to oppose people to each other, to adopt a logic of "everything safe" and stigmatization in order to establish this security which is indeed indispensable to the Republic. We believe in the social bond, social cohesion, the necessary investment in prevention, mediation, community policing. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] So you can caricature my speech as you like, too. Simply suffer from having contradictors; It's called the opposition. When you sit in the National Assembly, you don't mind politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u285	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u286	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 91 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 13 Against 78
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will give priority to Articles 12 to 16 and Rule 19 following the discussion of amendments after Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u288	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Savignat spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u289	We open the special session with an important text dealing with a serious subject if there is one that would probably have deserved a great and beautiful law on its own; a text in response to a situation that we could not ignore; a text that will provide an answer – not all the answers – to the emolument aroused by the court ruling on the ignoble aggression suffered by Sarah Halimi, an incomprehensible decision for many of our fellow citizens. We had to address this subject, but it was essential to do so calmly, coldly, in order not to succumb to emotion, not to act in haste, as complex as it is. With Naïma Moutchou, we saw this during the hearings that we conducted as part of the flash mission entrusted to us by the Law Commission: between the supporters of immobilism, those of the global reform, between the opinion of the people of law and that of the doctors, it was necessary to find a compromise so that the one who voluntarily annihilates his discernment before embarking on a criminal project could never again escape the conviction of his guilt. With this text, we will have done this work. There is still room for improvement in the medical care and support of prison staff too often faced with individuals suffering from severe pathologies that they are not able to attend in prison. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have announced an increase in the remuneration of experts; It's a good point, but we need to go further. There must be a genuine emulation, a enthusiasm for the creation of think tanks. During our mission, we have seen that there are many schools on the subject of mental disorders, and no good court decision will be rendered without clarification and definition of these disorders. We will not provide an acceptable response to the victims without a medical response. The other part of the text is essentially aimed at responding to censorship by the Constitutional Council of provisions, which were adopted in the proposed law on comprehensive security that preserves freedoms, in particular with regard to the video surveillance of persons in police custody or the use by certain State agencies of airborne cameras and drones. We will address, in particular, the situation of unaccompanied minors and the essential problem of determining their age. We had denounced the staggering lack of capacity of the authorities to cope with the growing violence and crime of some young people, and the difficulty for all judicial and social actors in assessing their age. On several occasions, we had tabled amendments to facilitate the assessment of the minority. We therefore welcome the measures in the text, in particular those giving the judicial police officer the opportunity to carry out or have carried out under his control fingerprinting and palmar operations or photographing the individual without his consent. Indeed, the fact-finding mission that I conducted with Jean-François Eliaou advocated making it mandatory to take fingerprints of minors and so-called juvenile offenders arrested or, failing that, to strengthen the sanction of refusing to submit to fingerprints. This proposal – contrary to what I have heard – was not intended to take them back to the border, which remains impossible for minors without their consent, but to follow them effectively from one territory to another so as not to continue to abandon them to their disinherence. As far as minors are concerned, I am not surprised that an amendment on the criminalization of trafficking in psychotropic substances was declared inadmissible: it had been discussed in committee by which it had been found admissible. We cannot ignore and ignore what we have seen during the fact-finding mission. These substances are used to create an arm's length relationship and to reduce into slavery, serving criminal networks, many of the youth who are alone in the territory. All the services taking care of these minors say: they find them totally destroyed, dependent, in unacceptable physical states. These drugs – because they are drugs – are obtained in prescription clinics and therefore reimbursed. They have a lower cost and are therefore easier to obtain and disseminate than drugs. All State services, all security services stress the urgent need to put an end to such trafficking; It is a pity that we have not seized the opportunity to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If we regret that this legislative vehicle, in which such important subjects will be discussed in haste, is, in a way, a broom car, we can only note that the majority finally realize that there is an urgent need to legislate on matters and problems which we have repeatedly denounced for years. The text is therefore used to modify and supplement several shortcomings. The proposed measures are in the right direction and we will follow closely their developments in the course of the discussions, particularly with regard to a subject dear to the Republican Group, that of the minimum penalties applicable to the perpetrators of offences committed against our law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u290	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u291	It is because the law governs our relations with others, our behaviour and our freedoms that it is essential to make it evolve with society. Thus, as you have said, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we must adapt our criminal response to a number of important issues as best we can. We must also better protect both our citizens and the members of the security forces in the context of the difficult action they are taking, as you naturally pointed out, Minister of the Interior. There are two parts to the text we are looking at. A first aspect of a judicial nature aims in particular to be a coherent and effective adapted response to the tragedy of the so-called Sarah Halimi case which, last spring, aroused a strong emotion – o so much legitimate – and a great incomprehension among our fellow citizens, following the decision declaring the author of the acts irresponsible criminally. However, changing the regime of criminal irresponsibility requires infinite precautions because there is a red line that must not be crossed, the one that lays down the principle that we do not judge the fools. This is a cardinal principle of our penal system but – this is the whole point of the new system – it is no longer valid from the moment when the offender himself became guilty of his own loss of means. When it voluntarily consumes substances knowing the risk of endangering others involved in this act, it is unacceptable to stick to criminal irresponsibility; That principle would be misguided. Moreover, it would not be fair for this act to be an aggravating circumstance in some cases and a cause of irresponsibility in others. The interest of the bill is to find a subtle and pragmatic line of ridge between the two solutions. This text is necessary and of common sense. That is why the Dem Group will not only support it, but will also propose to enrich it with three amendments aimed at extending the scope of the two new infringements created in Article 2. We would like this article to apply to voluntary arson that resulted in death or serious injury, rape by a person with a mental disorder when it results from deliberate poisoning, as well as to torture and barbarism committed under the same circumstances. The judicial side is also rich in other provisions that we fully support. In particular, it provides for the creation of a specific offence to punish violence against certain agents of public authority, including police officers and gendarmes. This is necessary because of the growing climate of violence faced by our law enforcement agencies. Moreover, the Dem Group has tabled an amendment so that it also applies to the rural guards, who are essential in our rural communes. The second part of the text deals with internal security. While last week, the President of the Republic closed the Beauvau de la sécurité by making several announcements to strengthen and modernize the tasks of our law enforcement agencies, the provisions of the bill appear indispensable to protect both our citizens and our law enforcement agencies. This is the case with the establishment of an operational reserve of the National Police based on what already exists within the national gendarmerie and which has proved its worth. This will, in particular, achieve the objective set by the President of the Republic to double the presence of police officers and gendarmes in the field in ten years. The increase in the penalties for the crime of refusing to comply is a measure of protection for our law enforcement agencies, which is also welcome. We believe that the examination in committee has achieved a satisfactory quantum of punishment. We also support camera devices embedded in vehicles. They will be operational by 2023 and will strengthen both the confidence of the population and the transparency of the police institution. More broadly, we are in favour of the provisions on video surveillance, because it is not, as we can understand, a threat to public freedoms, but rather a factor of appeasement, particularly during arrests, and of security for our fellow citizens, insofar as safeguards are provided for in the text. Moreover, from the outset, the Dem Group has been particularly vigilant on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Finally, I would like to commend the work of co-construction between Parliament and the Government, which has resulted in the development of operational arrangements that draw all the consequences of the Constitutional Council's decision. We must complete it today because the text, although at first glance it may be heterogeneous, basically responds to the demand of our fellow citizens for greater security. It reconciles the effectiveness of public action with constitutional requirements. For all these reasons, the Dem Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u292	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u293	We are discussing legislation following the tragic Sarah Halimi case. My remarks will be limited to that. The purpose of the presidential order is to determine whether article 122-1 of the Criminal Code should be amended in order to distinguish between the origin of the mental disorder and thus introduce criminal liability if the abolition of discernment results from the taking of psychoactive substances. Other recent tragedies, such as the assassination of the priest Olivier Maire or the crimes committed by Clement Guérin, also require us to reflect widely. The bill does not amend section 122-1, which establishes criminal liability. In our view, Article 1e does not pose any difficulty, it sets out what the case-law has finally already established, namely that the abolition of discernment resulting from deliberate intoxication with a view to committing an offence does not fall within the scope of criminal irresponsibility. In other words, one does not organize its criminal irresponsibility by giving oneself the means to commit a crime; It was probably useful to remind him. On the other hand, Article 2 questions. It is of a completely different nature in that it comes in our sense to complicate the analysis of criminal irresponsibility by creating two intentional autonomous offences prior to the acts committed. It is clear that anyone who illegally consumes illicit substances through discernment must face a conviction without even waiting for the commission of a crime. All the specialists we have heard tell us the very great interplay between mental disorders and the use of psychotropic drugs. Can the voluntary nature of intoxication and the discernment as to the effects of it that will occur much later be based on the calm times of a schizophrenic life? Psychiatric experts and judges must solve a real riddle when they have to determine whether the person concerned has at any time been aware, in an earlier time, that the ingested psychotropics could lead him to commit such a crime. No actor hesitates in the face of difficulty, it already exists when it is necessary to reconstruct, two years after the facts, the mental state of their author. On the other hand, we can fear vain battles of experts, which will weaken the overall analysis of the current case and, in the long run, create, in our view, a breach in the principle of criminal irresponsibility. The principle of criminal irresponsibility is not called into question by the citizens, since it does not mean release: we must remind here that the mentally ill are placed in psychiatric centres or units of difficult patients for periods that can be much longer than imprisonment. It is admitted that we do not judge the fools, minister; On the other hand, society and the relatives of the victims must be protected from the madman. This is what emerged from the citizen's legislative workshop that I had organized in my constituency, with a criminal lawyer and a psychiatrist and in the presence of citizens: all of us shared their expectations on this point with regard to certain grievous situations – the dreadful case of Clément Guérin, which my constituency was the scene of and which I spoke about in the law commission, or the drama of Olivier Maire, murdered by a person who had spent a month in a psychiatric hospital. This legislation must, in our view, provide the guarantees that citizens expect of the permanence of the care required by the mental state of the person. If this guarantee is not provided, criminal irresponsibility will ultimately be at risk. This is therefore the subject of the majority of our amendments: jurisdiction of an investigating chamber on the lifting of ex officio hospitalization, of course proposed by the psychiatrists and appreciated by the judges; possibility to make compulsory care outside the hospital, real demand from psychiatrists experts. This text has the merit of unwittingly asking the question of psychiatry and highlighting how ill-treated mental health has been for years. The demography of the psychiatrists is in free fall, which has many consequences: lengthening the deadlines for filing expert reports or, in the dreadful case of Clement Guérin, the lifting of an ex officio hospitalisation for lack of having found an outside psychiatrist in the procedural time. Criminal irresponsibility is at the crossroads of two fundamental public policies, justice and mental health. It must be noted, however, that this link is not reinforced by this text. Yet criminal irresponsibility and care work together, and justice cannot abandon such serious cases. This abandonment is confirmed to us with the foundations of mental health – you have nothing to do with it, minister, since it is the Ministry of Health that organizes them: they are held this month, and nothing is planned on the subject that obliges us today. This text will therefore not be voted on by the Socialist and Related Group. It is considered to be a non-response to the questions that arise, particularly with regard to social cohesion, in relation to security, and the situation of mental health in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u294	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u295	This bill implements various commitments made by the President of the Republic. It draws the consequences of the dramatic Sarah Halimi case, on the one hand, and the partial censorship of the global security law, on the other. However, things must be said very clearly: the text we are studying today has not been drafted in one night, in simple reaction to the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 14 April 2021. It is the result of a very long work, carried out in particular by the guard of the seals, and of exchanges with all the actors of the judiciary and civil society. Already, in February 2020, the guard of the seals Nicole Belloubet requested a report on criminal irresponsibility, which was delivered by Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg to our current seal guard on 23 April 2021, the result of more than a year of work. Let us add to this the remarkable work carried out by Naïma Moutchou and Antoine Savignant as part of a flash mission on the application of article 122-1 of the Penal Code, the conclusions of which were delivered on 30 June last. The bill we are looking at today is largely imbued with this work. The criminal irresponsibility of the alienated is a very old idea, an exciting article from the World, published last weekend and entitled "Criminal irresponsibility, the difficult border between the territory of evil and that of madness", recounts the history of this notion. The trace of this is found in the Babylonian code of Hammourabi, engraved on a stele of Mesopotamia, 1700 years before Jesus Christ, but also in Plato's writings devoted, during the Athenian democracy, to criminal law. If, in general, the seniority of a concept is not proof of its relevance, in this case, this consistency throughout the ages attests to the soundness of this reasoning. We don't judge crazy people. The bill does not return for a moment to this cardinal principle. The text also draws lessons from the decision of the Constitutional Council, which on 20 May 2021 censored the articles of the comprehensive security bill. To this end, it also includes, on the one hand, provisions strengthening the repression of attacks against the internal security forces and, on the other hand, provisions aimed at modernising the law by giving law enforcement officials access to innovative working tools. Their safety is a non-negotiable issue at a time when the Beauvau's conclusions of security remind us more than ever of their primary role, on the front line, and sometimes at the risk of their lives, in the protection of our fellow citizens. Thus, the bill strengthens the regime of penalties for offences of refusal to comply with a warning to stop, providing for the same level of punishment as for the most serious road crimes. I will be defending, together with my colleague Dimitri Houbron, the amendments from the Group of the European People's Party, with a view to broadening the scope of Article 4, so that they can also benefit our local elected representatives. In the Committee on Laws, by an amendment common to the three groups of the majority, we have extended this protection to firefighters and customs officers. We also tabled an amendment to extend Article 4 to persons holding public office: this amendment has been rejected and we regret it. Today we propose to better protect our local elected representatives. Between August 2020 and August 2021, attacks on local elected officials tripled. While the Government has taken very strong decisions to combat this intolerable phenomenon, I hope that we will remain in this dynamic by adopting this amendment. We will also propose several amendments to strengthen the safeguards surrounding the rights of detainees, in the context of video surveillance, as provided for in section 7 of this bill. I have also tabled an amendment, co-signed by the majority of the Group of the European People's Party, which aims to allow the use of drones to monitor areas where urban rodeos frequently take place. Motorised rodeos are a scourge, particularly in Marseilles – and I would like to highlight the work of law enforcement in this area. The law of August 3, 2018 has made it possible to better apprehend offenders, and I welcome the contributions of section 18 of this bill, which is further improving its mechanism and giving additional resources to our police forces. Finally, this bill is part of the ongoing work we have been doing since 2018 to combat violence against women. The aim is to be more effective in confiscating the firearms of perpetrators of domestic violence, bearing in mind that 30 per cent of femicides are committed by this means. Thus, Article 10 enhances the effectiveness of FINIADA. After the enactment of the law, I hope that all judicial decisions – judicial review, house arrest with electronic supervision, or any other decision issued by the judicial authority – can be included. This is an undeniable progress. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat also applauds]] In conclusion, this bill is expected, necessary and relevant; Above all, it respects the essential principles, which guarantee our public freedoms. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u296	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u297	As you said in your opening remarks, the decision of the Court of Cassation of 14 April 2021 in the Sarah Halimi case created a real feeling of injustice for many of our fellow citizens, especially since it was a sordid murder with an anti-Semitic aim, recognized as such. Of course, we do not legislate for a particular case or under the influence of emotion. The work cited by previous speakers shows that this issue of the exception of criminal irresponsibility is a subject of debate in which many of our fellow citizens do not understand. No – and that makes consensus – one should not judge or condemn criminally, those who are recognized as insane. But our fellow citizens find it difficult to understand that the declaration of criminal irresponsibility does not give rise to a trial that would have allowed the civil parties and the representatives of the victims to travel intellectually to admit this decision and to recognize the criminal irresponsibility of the perpetrator of a crime. On the contrary, there is a feeling that the only answer to the family in distress comes from an abrupt decision. This bill, which was originally intended to deal with this issue alone, deals more broadly with both juvenile criminal justice and internal security measures. Members of the UDI Group are generally in favour and will vote in favour of the text, but I would like to go back to the disagreement we have over the drafting of the first articles, which specifically concern criminal irresponsibility. The general principle is that three cumulative criteria are required in order not to retain the exception of irresponsibility: the voluntary and conscious taking of psychoactive substances, a time limit – which remains to be determined – between the taking of these substances and the commission of the crime, and finally, the intentionality linked to the taking of psychoactive substances by the perpetrator. On this last point, you have repeatedly pointed out, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that this wording did not respond directly to the Sarah Halimi case but rather to the case in which the perpetrator of terrorist acts that took psychoactive substances survives his acts: he could not then benefit from criminal irresponsibility. On that, we agree. However, we believe that we need to go further – and this is the subject of an amendment that we have tabled – by deciding that unsanitary use of psychoactive substances is in principle opposed to criminal irresponsibility being retained for the benefit of the perpetrator of a crime. This is a divergence, but our debates may be able to erase it. With regard to the other measures contained in the text, we welcome, as one of our constant proposals, the strengthening of the penalties for perpetrators of violence against persons holding public authority, heard in the broad sense, bearing in mind that several amendments intend to further broaden the scope of persons who may be protected by this provision. For our part, we will defend an amendment that provides exceptionally – but there are other exceptions in the bill – for cumulative sentences to be imposed on perpetrators of multi-offences against persons with public authority. These are the reasons why IDU-I Members will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u298	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u299	Mr. Minister of the Interior, I am honoured to remain in the Chamber when I speak, as opposed to the guard of the seals. So here's your umpteenth security bill – I gave up counting them – in the form of a pot-pump, or a tote. Indeed, this text has no meaning in itself; It is a superimposition of proposals, more or less relevant, relating to different concrete problems. This bill is symptomatic of your obsessions and anxieties. You want to rule by fear; you want to scare and respond to this fear by ever more "security" – I put quotes, since, as everyone knows, this one is not on the date. At the origin of the first theme of the text, criminal irresponsibility, there is, to sum up, the murder of Sarah Halimi, an abject anti-Semitic murder that aroused a legitimate emotion in the country – a feeling shared by the President of the Republic, since he allowed himself to intervene during the judicial debate, inducing a communiqué from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary asking him to play his role as guarantor of the independence of the judicial authority. Then we were told that there was a hole in the racket. There was something missing in the law to be able to punish Sarah Halimi's murderer, who was found criminally irresponsible for total abolition of discernment. We are therefore making the proposal, not to judge the act of "madness", nor the "mads" – terms which we now know are not adequate, but which I use for everyone to understand the stakes – but to create an offence to judge what may have happened before, that is, what may have led to madness. So we try to twist what professionals call animus necandi – I too learn words at the turn of this kind of exciting debate. It is therefore a matter of trying to convict anyone who has allegedly used narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or other psychoactive substances and who has committed an act under the insanity induced by these substances, even though he would be found criminally irresponsible for this act under the current legislation, to be sentenced to 10 or 15 years in prison. This offence will be subject to significant cumulative conditions, so that ultimately it is possible that the victims will not succeed, which may create a new source of distrust towards the judicial institution. icing on the cake, we are told that this text, supposed to fill a hole in the racket, would not have changed anything in the Sarah Halimi case, and that is why we should validate it! That's quite extraordinary. You receive a political order from the President of the Republic, and you don't even answer it. If I were you, I would have refrained from proposing such a text. The rest of the bill is a second chance before the Constitutional Council. You are bad players, so try again to pass on certain measures, especially for everything that affects technopolitics, that is to say to the general surveillance: cameras in police cells, drones, on-board cameras... Filming everything, all the time, everywhere: that's what your political project is all about. Is that supposed to reassure us? I am not sure that this is very reassuring. You yourself said in the rostrum, Minister, that the use of drones should be better secured and better regulated, including the use of drones in a judicial setting, even though judicial use had been removed from cases where the use of drones is possible. That's pretty crazy. In fact, this was probably the most supervised case, since a magistrate could control the use of these technologies. On this point, our position will be just as firm as in the proposal for a law on global security. Finally, you add a few very clientelistic offences to answer to the fake police organizations that came to explain to us last May, before the National Assembly, that the problem was justice. Message received by yourself, Minister: since if you consider that the problem is justice, you just have to give the police the right to distribute fines directly without going through the judicial box. Let's put a word on the one who committed a crime right now! I am thinking in particular of the flat-rate fine for shoplifting, which will no doubt create other problems and fuel Mr Xavier Bertrand's argument, which will regret that fines are not often paid enough and suggest that the amount of fines should be deducted from the social minimums. Bravo, nice political project! I'm not sure we're pushing crime back like this; It would be the opposite. On the other hand, you create an autonomous offence against violence against police officers and you increase the range of penalties applicable in case of refusal to comply, by virtue of the belief never substantiated – or, to be more accurate, of which we have amply demonstrated the falseness – according to which, when you commit an offence, you do so by hand the penal code. No one today refuses to comply by saying to himself: "It's going, it's not expensive paid, a refusal to comply," nor that person will say to himself tomorrow: "Ah, shit! Now it's two or three years' imprisonment depending on the circumstances: I will never commit a refusal to comply. This is totally ridiculous. In the end, there will be no less refusal to comply. With these methods, you are blurring the police, police and gendarmes who are daily on the ground and who are doing what they are asked to do. For us, it will therefore be an opposition vote against a pot-pourri bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u300	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u301	In the Libertés et territoires Group, we do not consider that the writing of the law should be done a posteriori in response to specific and mediated events, however dramatic they may be. This helps to weaken the quality of the law. In fact, the normative contribution of the proposed measures is likely to be very limited. Worse: the result is often a strengthening of the repressive arsenal and an inexorable setback in our freedoms, on which history shows us that it is very difficult to return. The murder of Sarah Halimi, since that is, in particular, what this bill is about, is a heinous, undeniably anti-Semitic crime that has rightly moved French and international public opinion. However, we do not measure the contribution that this text could make in order to prevent such events from happening again. With regard to section 1, I will confine myself to mentioning the Council of State, which stresses in its opinion that "the exception introduced by the bill, which intends to respond to the emotion aroused in the opinion by various tragic facts, is more than limited in scope, the meeting of the conditions for the exclusion of criminal irresponsibility seems very theoretical and the proof of the extremely difficult element of intent to bring into practice. » With regard to article 2, we are concerned that it leads to placing people with severe mental disorders in prison, whereas they should rather be treated. In fact, it is a question of sentencing up to 10 years in prison persons who were initially declared criminally irresponsible of the crime for which they will then be prosecuted. It should be recalled that the Government itself commissioned a report, including the conclusions, which was delivered in early 2021 by MM. Houillon and Raimbourg explicitly recommended not to touch the law. Thus, these measures are more like an unsuccessful attempt than an improvement in the law for the purpose of intelligibility and effectiveness. We regret once again to have to deal with the effects without any attempt being made to address the cause: the cause is, of course, the follow-up of people with severe psychiatric disorders, which is obviously not covered in the text. Moreover, as we are at the end of the legislature, the Government is taking advantage of a legislative vehicle to replace the measures that have not been adopted so far, as a number of them have been recaptured by the Constitutional Council. With regard to new offences against the security forces, I would like once again to quote the opinion of the Council of State, according to which "the criminal code contains numerous criminal offences relating to threats, intimidation or violence against persons entrusted with certain public service tasks, without the fact that they are always clear and well articulated between them. I would also point out that, for most of these offences, the penalties incurred are greater when they are committed against law enforcement officials than against persons who are not in possession of public authority. Therefore, "the Council of State reiterates its suggestion to the Government [...] to initiate a reflection in order to give them more readability and coherence". Our group can only abound in this direction. In addition, the law provides that police reservists may carry a weapon during certain interventions. It is necessary for such a provision to be accompanied by adequate and in-depth training, and by a genuine selection, in particular psychologically, of the persons recruited from this new operational reserve, as we will propose by amendment. In fact, weapons turn against their owners more often than they serve against offenders. Finally, you re-introduce into the text measures resulting from the proposed law for comprehensive security regarding video capture devices, censored a few weeks ago by the Constitutional Council for insufficient respect for the right to privacy. Some of the remarks made by members of our group to the Constitutional Council remain valid: for example, the grounds for the use of drones for surveillance purposes listed in Article 8 are far too vague, which may make this practice common throughout the country. It would also be wise for the prohibition on collecting images of homes to be supplemented by an extension to images of buildings and all private places in order to limit the infringement of the right to privacy. Above all, if the text provides that the recording will have to be stopped immediately "in case of visualisation of the home", it will most often be impossible to achieve this for technical reasons: the interior of the homes will therefore be filmed. For all these reasons, the Freedom and Territory Group will vote mostly against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u302	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u303	The anger expressed after the statement of the criminal irresponsibility of the perpetrator of the barbaric and anti-Semitic murder of Sarah Halimi, I understand it, if we sit on the side of the victims who feel that justice is not being done. This feeling of injustice is felt almost every time criminal irresponsibility is pronounced. We must do the best justice possible; It is sometimes difficult to understand, and therefore difficult to understand, by the victims. Criminal irresponsibility is one of the pillars of our justice. Judges are the guarantors of its proper application on the basis of the work of the experts. Criminal justice cannot be built on emotion. Should such a change be made to the regime of criminal irresponsibility as defined in article 122-1 of the Criminal Code? Such a change undermines our penal structure, and appears to be more theoretical than practical, as the Council of State points out by noting that "the meeting of the conditions for exclusion from irresponsibility seems very theoretical and the proof of the extremely difficult intentional element to provide in practice". This change is also considered inappropriate in the February 2021 report by our former colleagues Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg, which was drawn up after the work of a mission on this subject. Should there be an umpteenth law on internal security? We cannot build the law in this way, let alone criminal law. For our part, we hope that the abolition of discernment at the time of the act will remain exclusive of intent within the meaning of criminal law and we will oppose the first three articles. Let me have an incise on the state of psychiatry in France. What's the point of putting people with serious psychiatric disorders in prison? The prison does not have the necessary medical equipment, even if there are areas of psychiatry in prison. If it is necessary, given their mental state, to lock up and care for people in order to protect society, whether they are in suitable places, even if it is necessary to improve safety measures; It will be more beneficial for everyone. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The latest epidemiological study on mental illness in prison, cited by the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, concluded that 80 per cent of male prisoners had at least one psychiatric disorder, and 24 per cent had a psychotic disorder. Several times in this House, and on all benches, we have denounced the fact that psychiatry has been sacrificed in our country: the conditions of care are degraded, the structures are lacking, the number of beds in psychiatry service has been divided by two in twenty-five years. To support the sick, we need to reinvest massively in order to remedy shortcomings that are cause for tragedy. With regard to the security aspect of the law, we are once again faced with a text containing a series of disparate provisions, coming after other texts on the same subjects, trying to correct their mistakes and circumvent the opinions of the Constitutional Council or the Council of State. Several provisions are problematic. In general, the link between the objectives sought and respect for fundamental rights does not seem satisfactory. Among these provisions, we are opposed to section 16, which makes it possible to force a fingerprint, palmar or photograph to be taken. This article explicitly refers to unaccompanied minors, but we are firmly opposed to the idea of seeing minors, therefore children, even though they are accused of an offence, being physically forced to justify their identity. This measure seems to us to be a violation of the rights of the child. With regard to video surveillance in police custody, we mean the need to be able to use video surveillance in case of identified risk, in particular to prevent self-harm by the person being held in police custody. However, we hope, like the Union of Trade Union Judges, that the judicial authority will have access, upon request, to the images collected. I would add that there is an urgent need to improve the sanitary conditions of police custody facilities. The Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty alerted some of them to the unworthy aspect. Finally, I would like to express my questions about the extension of the police civilian reserve to an operational reserve. Training times do not seem to me to be appropriate for the new missions that will be entrusted to non-police reservists. While the Government's objective is to improve the link between the police and the population, I also see a somewhat light way to deal with the shortage of women officers, particularly judicial police officers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] While the GDR Group will support several articles, in particular Article 18 concerning the fight against motorised rodeos, which is a real scourge, our oppositions are too numerous for us to vote on this text. We call for reason and to stop stacking up security-related laws of circumstance. Let's first take stock of the implementation and effectiveness of previous laws passed by the majority, let's evaluate them. Let us not give in to ease because we would deceive our fellow citizens about the interests of such reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u304	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u305	If "responsibility is the intimate consequence of freedom," according to Desrosiers, then this text is an intimate consequence of the exercise of our individual and collective freedoms. In our Republic, the demand for real freedoms has never been greater. The duty to consolidate the tools that protect the most essential rights of citizens lies with the State, which is the guarantor of public order. Freedom to go and come, the right to integrity, respect for privacy, a peaceful life, respect for human dignity, freedom to manifest, each of these fundamentals requires a subsequent responsibility, for the State as well as for the citizen or foreign host. That is why the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, has made great commitments to the French. We are all aware here of the contradiction that grips our society: on the one hand, the search for a full exercise of our rights and, on the other hand, the daily and uncomplicated increase in violence, including attacks on people. The stakes are great for a rule of law: to empower others to guarantee the effectiveness of each person's freedoms. In the history of justice, a popular affair often highlights a question of the century. This is the case in the Halimi case, as was the case in the Firmin case, which led to the principle of criminal irresponsibility in 1795. Yes, the popular emotion was strong. And because of it, it raises major concerns of our time: the trivialization of addictions, anti-Semitism, attacks on others. The criminal measures presented by the keeper of the seals respond to the media case and go beyond it. This text is responsible for the voluntary taking of psychoactive substances leading to a potentially dangerous loss of control. No one can claim today to ignore the peril of these addictions. We, the majority, share the conviction of the President of the Republic: refusal of denial, affirmation of a social struggle, yes, drugs are dangerous for ourselves, others and the community. They are dangerous in particular because of the abolition of the discernment they cause, which sometimes leads to the worst. This worst, carried out under the influence of alienation, cannot be criminally condemned in a rational democracy. When the will is no longer free, responsibility cannot be retained. On the other hand, going back a little in time, when the still free will made the choice to expose itself to alienation, then yes, a criminal offence can be constituted and punished. That's the point of the title I. We are creating an aggravated crime of voluntary criminal irresponsibility by taking psychoactive substances. However, 10 per cent of criminal irresponsibility is pronounced on rape or arson that has led to murder. The LaREM Group, under the leadership of our colleague Laetitia Avia, will defend amendments to include these offences. No impunity for voluntary irresponsibility. Justice is not alone in this matter. Crossing paths with medicine, health is involved in these judicial decisions. The upgrading of psychiatric experts by the guard of seals, welcomed by all, was also an opportunity to discuss their specificity. In particular, they call for the structuring of a dedicated legal sector, a proposal which deserves to be examined. Education can also play: key to emancipation, it could strengthen the fight against addictions, the reaffirmation of human freedom by reason, a colossal challenge in the era of "all entertainment". We then have a responsibility to our internal security forces, to those who have chosen to dedicate their lives to serving the State, to protecting us. Our visions of public tranquillity must be respected. Because the link of trust between the police and the population is crucial in the republic, civil exchanges must be multiplied and abuses punished. The establishment of the Police Operational Reserve will provide a new area of engagement between the police and the population. As for those who disdain what "detainee of public authority" means, we are increasing sanctions against them. It is the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior to protect those who protect us. No neighborhood for the rebellion, which, because of one every seventeen minutes, as you said, Minister of the Interior, has become an incivility to vulgarity trivialized. If the previous decades have allowed this contempt for our internal security forces, we, the presidential majority, decide to act. In the same vein, rodeos, overflows organized on the public road, going so far as to endanger the fundamental right to manifest, will not be able to prosper. Crowd movements can be better framed by aircraft images, while strictly limiting themselves to the needs of maintaining public order. No science fiction in our debates: widespread surveillance in France does not exist. Not even sprouting. Conspiracy would not be worthy of this House, I hope that our debates will dare the proportionality necessary for our fundamental rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, that is where the stake lies: that we know how to articulate the proportionality of the measures in this text with respect for the fundamental freedoms to which we are attached. Because where there is freedom, there is responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u306	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u307	The misunderstanding caused by the Halimi case has shown that our penal code is ill-suited to respond to the most serious crimes whose outbreak is linked to the taking of psychotropic drugs. The bill intends to better arm the judiciary against a contradiction of our law, which does not provide for an increase in the penalties for a voluntary offence committed under the influence of toxic products. Unfortunately, the proposed mechanisms do not seem to provide an appropriate response, as they seem difficult to implement: how, for a judge, demonstrate the exact awareness of the perpetrator of the offence of the known or foreseeable effects of such consumption? How can we demonstrate voluntary consumption with the aim of committing a crime? In order to specify too much, the legislator's response is mainly likely to be inadequate for the victims' expectations and needs for reparation. The collective Ecology democracy solidarity, however, had proposed, thanks to amendments by Matthieu Orphelin rejected in committee, a simple and adapted writing. In addition to criminal responsibility, the bill has a significant internal security component. This is the second reform in one year of the Code of Internal Security, which clearly precedes another, as announced by the President of the Republic. Inflation of legislative production is a demonstration of the great difficulty of having a calmed and reasoned debate on this subject, while the restoration of trust relations between citizens and police is a major societal issue. The return of provisions deemed unconstitutional a few months ago is not really such as to recreate this relationship of trust. On the subject of drones, first of all, privacy guarantees remain insufficient since gardens or vehicles are not protected by your text. Again, the collective Ecology democracy solidarity makes proposals for consolidation, thanks to amendments by Paula Forteza, which I call on you to adopt. The draft law also contains provisions for minors. I am thinking in particular of Articles 12 and 16, the first aimed at keeping a minor, or a major, in detention because of a presentation before the wrong court because of an error in the assessment of his age, the second allowing the use of force in order to make a record of the fingerprints and photographs of the persons in question, in particular when they claim their minority. Inspired by the information report of MPs Jean-François Eliaou and Antoine Savignat, these articles aim, without naming them, at unaccompanied minors. As a result, child protection provisions are replaced by control provisions, which are often migratory, since fingerprinting, combined with AEM files – support for majority assessment – is intended to keep them away from child protection systems. In the absence of a presumption of a minority, children will not be cared for, will not be protected despite their very high status and vulnerability. These provisions may further increase the use of pre-trial detention, which is already often used for unaccompanied minors. Detention of minors should be used only as a last resort, on an exceptional basis, as the best interests of the child dictate. The collective Ecology democracy solidarity cannot subscribe to such proposals in advance of the policies to be implemented urgently for the protection of children in distress. By systematically calling into question the words of minors, they are helped to place them outside the scope of child protection. For this reason, and through my voice, our collective will propose deletion amendments, which I again call on you to adopt. [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there is still much work to be done in order to achieve a balanced and effective text that is able to achieve the objectives set out in its title if we do not once again want a bill lost in the midst of too much normative inflation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u308	The general discussion is closed. It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u309	This text, I say without forfantry, deserves better than the motion of rejection which was presented to us and which was basically an inventory at the Prévert, poetry less. We found there the technical control of motorcycles, debates to come without the knowledge of which it really is, a diatribe against populism, a police station without heating, the IGPN... Above all, there was talk of hatred, racism and anti-Semitism: where is this found in the text? This was scandalous, and I regret, even if everyone is free, that the Member concerned is a party and cannot argue a number of things in view of the harsh criticisms I have made of her comments. I heard that we were dealing with an umpteenth stack of laws, but also that the law had been taken under the influence of emotion. I will say two words about that. There is a judgment of the Court of Cassation that obliges us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u310	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u311	Please, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u312	This judgment was delivered in accordance with the rule of law in force. The attorney general in charge of requesting in this Halimi case, who has upset us all, said that we cannot judge where the law does not allow us. That's clear. In view of this jurisprudence, its pedagogy, it was quite normal that we should come to fill this legislative vacuum. We didn't do it under the influence of emotion. I said earlier, I consulted a lot, psychiatrists,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u313	Did you find any?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u314	... cults, magistrates, lawyers, and we have resulted in this balanced text. I have heard in various speeches statements that do not correspond to reality. The abolition of discernment which comes from a mental illness, in an endogenous cause, implies to draw the consequences, and one cannot naturally judge a psychiatric patient. It's obvious. We never wanted to cross this red line, it would be an unbearable societal setback. I recall that it was in the Middle Ages that the madmen were judged, as were the animals. On the other hand, if the abolition of discernment takes its source in an exogenous cause, in the fact of taking narcotics, for example, then it is very logical that the one who takes this risk knowingly, and we will see the precautions taken in this text so that intentionality is at the heart of the reflection, this one must be punished. Let me, for a moment, risk comparing the current text with the situation in the Halimi case. We do not know all the elements of this case and the scraps that we have at our disposal, we have collected them, both in the press and in the press. In the current state of the law – since this bill, of course, has not yet been passed – the penalty that the perpetrator of such a crime could face today is one year's imprisonment for the use of narcotics. Not a prosecutor of the Republic of that country would dare to ask for a trial to be held in such circumstances. Imagine what it would look like to the victims! This would be an unbearable form of indecency. Prosecutors naturally have the meaning of victims and decency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u315	Unlike the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u316	On the other hand, if an individual consumes narcotics to the point of madness, then he may be punished for such consumption, provided, however, that such madness is temporary and that the consumption of narcotics concerns an individual for whom the abolition of discernment has not been recognized. If a madman consumes narcotics, he cannot naturally be tried for that consumption, or for the crime or offence that he is going to commit at a later date. These are the distinctions that the bill makes perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u317	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u318	As for the terrorist who, in order to give himself courage, consumes narcotics, we obviously consider that he cannot escape his responsibility in any way. I would like to end by responding to one point raised in Mrs Bagarry's last speech. You say, Madam Member, that taking the impressions of minors is a way of keeping them away from child protection. I'm sorry to say it so openly, but you didn't understand anything about this text, which precisely defends the idea strictly to the contrary! The kids we're talking about are wandering about identity, nationality, age. Because it is impossible to identify them, it is impossible for the judicial protection of young people to do the work they so wish to do with them. You leave them on the street, you let them go...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u319	But you're the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u320	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] You don't allow us to know them any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u321	Mr. Bernalicis, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u322	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis protested]] Calm down, Mr. Bernalicis! Don't get excited!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u323	Mr Bernalicis, you will speak in the debate, but I ask you to remain silent now. Let the keeper of the seals express himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u324	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Don't get excited as usual, Mr. Bernalicis. Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u325	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u326	Mrs. Obono, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I don't have any humanism lessons to learn from anyone. If I thought taking a kid's fingerprint could hurt him, I wouldn't be here tonight to support this text. The fingerprinting of these young people is not intended to hurt them, Mrs. Bagarry, but to do them good! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u328	"Doing them good": but of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u329	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u330	Several of you have pointed out that the Constitutional Council has censored or interpreted certain provisions adopted by the legislator which they accuse us of returning. Mr. Bernalicis called us "bad players," and Ms. Buffet, whose position I respect, stated that the Government wanted to "correct" the position of the constitutional judge. Funny democracy is the one in which there could be no dialogue between the political power, which drafts and proposes legislation, the deputies, who amend and validate them, and the Constitutional Council – like the Council of State before it – which examines and censors them under the rule of law and what it considers to be the constitutional bloc! Such a dialogue is not dishonorable. On the contrary, we must welcome the fact that the political power dialogue, responds, learns and amends, corrects and eventually complements the provisions it proposes in the context of public policies. Sometimes provisions are censored by the Constitutional Council, but this may be for formal reasons, as was the case with the operational reserve: the constitutional judge considered this measure to be a cavalier and invited the Government to propose it in another bill. We are therefore taking the requests of the Constitutional Council! Other provisions are censored because they have to be reworked; There's no harm in that. This is the case with the legal status of aircraft. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore do not see how the provisions we are proposing are an insult to Parliament and to political power. On the contrary, they show strict respect by the Government and the majority – and other groups beyond the majority – for the separation of powers and the dialogue between these powers. By definition, dialogue is not the absence of discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u331	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u332	Before clause 1, I have before me two amendments, Nos. 91 and 362, to amend the title of Title I of the bill, which may be subject to joint discussion. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u333	The derogatory provision proposed in this text aims to emphasize that the perpetrator of the crime or offence has the lucid intention to proceed to the act at the time of his deliberate intoxication. This will is difficult, if not impossible, to prove. If proven, it should also be accompanied by aggravating premeditation for the person responsible for the crime or offence. My amendment proposes that the derogation should be conditional on the ingestion of psychoactive substances alone. People who ingest this type of substance are aware of their effects. In fact, it is precisely the alteration of their behaviour that they seek in this intoxication. Furthermore, it is easier to prove that the alleged offender is under the influence of psychoactive substances than to demonstrate his will to submit to their consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u334	The rapporteur, Mrs Naïma Moutchou, has the floor to support Amendment No. 362.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u335	This editorial amendment is intended to clarify the title of Title I by adding the words "psychoactive substances".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u336	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u337	Unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 91 and of course in favour of Amendment No 362.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u339	I am in favour of Mrs Moutchou's amendment and I am against Mrs Lorho's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u340	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u341	Mr Darmanin explained a few minutes ago that a dialogue between the authorities was necessary. It seems to me that Mrs Lorho's amendment invites us precisely to a debate between the executive and the legislature! From the title of Title I, there is indeed a profound difference in approach between the Government's position and Amendment No. 91, which changes the nature of the bill. The Government believes that the intent of the act at the time of ingestion of the substance must be proven. Mrs Lorho, whom I agree with, proposes that the taking of a substance is in itself a manifestation of criminal responsibility. [[Mr. Keeper of Seals]] Can you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, explain to us in a more reasoned way than you have done so far why you have chosen such a timid advance in response to the very important trouble caused by the Sarah Halimi affair in Marseilles and throughout the country? Believe me, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, Marseillais of all denominations demonstrated to express their emotion at the time of this affair! I'm sorry you're taking it so casually. The subject is sensitive and politically very marked. We are meeting today to correct an injustice, but what is the point of discussing a text that we know will actually only make corrections to the margin? Once again, we will be subject to case law which will systematically interpret the issue of intentionality in the same direction. Thank you for answering us, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, so that we can finally open the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u342	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u343	We will probably come back to the subject several times during the debate, but I would like to repeat to Mrs Lorho what I have already answered in committee. If you remove the voluntary nature of poisoning, you completely miss the objective of the text and you take the risk of repressing involuntary intoxications – for example, poisoning, taking psychoactive substances by accident or misprescribing medicines. This is obviously not the objective we are aiming at.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u344	[[At 19.05 p.m., Mr. David Habib replaced Ms. Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u345	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u346	Good evening, Mr. President! Thank you for giving me the floor. Voluntaryity – that is, intentionality – is required for all offences, Mr.Aubert. I know that you are constantly overbidding on all subjects, but several examples have just been given to you. Let's take another at random: a 16-year-old is mistaken and takes psychotropic drugs by mistake. If a malicious individual puts psychotropic products in his glass, do you really want that young person to be condemned? Then take responsibility for it. As for me, I object and consider it useful to include the voluntary nature of poisoning in the text. All our criminal procedure and all our special criminal law are underpinned by will. There are, of course, involuntary offences, but in this case the bill provides for the voluntary consumption of psychotropic products. This is an absolute proof for us, even if it is not the case for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u347	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u348	As we see from the outset, this bill on criminal responsibilities serves on a plateau to the right the toughest and most reactionary...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u349	Counter-revolutionary even!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u350	...the opportunity to present its arguments and to challenge the current conception of criminal law that madmen are not condemned. It therefore seeks to condemn them for other reasons, in particular because they have taken certain substances. The absorption is sufficient to the right; it must be voluntary according to the LaREM group and M. the keeper of the seals. Ultimately, this is tantamount to trying to open a breach in order to condemn, through new articles of law, a person deemed criminally irresponsible because of a total abolition of discernment. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] That is the political outcome of your text, Mr Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. It is you who open the breach and roll out the red carpet for the most reactionary right in our country. It never ends well! The truth is, there's no hole in the racket. Moreover, the government's provision to fill this alleged hole would not have even served in the case of Sarah Halimi's murder!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u351	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u352	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u353	As far as Mrs Lorho's amendment is concerned, the guard of the seals has been perfectly clear, but I want to go back to it, probably with less talent than he did. Mr Aubert, as legislators and lawyers, we cannot, at the turn of an amendment, disregard all the principles governing the criminal law of our country. To characterize an offence, a material element, a moral element and an intentional element are indispensable. This is a fundamental principle of criminal law and you cannot, by means of an amendment, break a system that our country has spent years building.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u354	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u355	Obviously, Ugo Bernalicis and I are not doing the same analysis of Mr. Kobili Traoré's profile! [[Mr. Keeper of the Seals Protests]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] As for our colleagues in the majority who defend the main principles of criminal policy, I congratulate them, but unfortunately the law sometimes turns against justice. Yes, Mr. Minister! The question we have to ask ourselves is where the justice is in the Sarah Halimi case. If the law allows murderers to leave free, where is justice? I have confidence in the justice of my country, Mr. Keeper of Seals. It is not because you hold someone responsible that you condemn him. If an adolescent has inadvertently taken psychotropic drugs, justice is able to decide that he or she is responsible without condemning him or her. It's another way of looking at things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u356	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u357	One argument has come back repeatedly in committee and I will try to answer it once and for all. I have tried to explain the rule of law, that is to say, the observation made by the Court of Cassation through the voice of its Advocate General, who wrote a very high quality statement – it is an extremely interesting document; It corresponds to what the high judges of the Court of Cassation expressed in the press after the case in question. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr.Aubert: this is not about redressing an injustice because, in the Halimi case, the situation and the decisions are final. On the other hand, the injustices of this nature are being brought to an end in the future. The nuance – you who are a man of great nuance –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u358	That makes us one thing in common, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u359	...can't escape you. What we mean is, of course, that we cannot judge a madman, but that we must distinguish – as I said earlier – the one who is sick, who is crazy and diagnosed as such, and the one who went mad because he committed an offence, in this case because he consumed, voluntarily and knowingly, narcotics. You have understood well that not everyone who has consumed narcotics can exonerate himself from their criminal responsibility; In fact, during the consultations that I conducted, I realized that in forty years the problem arose only once, in the context of this case. But it seems to me that the legislator is obliged to take into account what the case law has stated very clearly. Normality is a complicated concept but we can use the notion of mental illness. A person who has no mental pathology and who voluntarily consumes narcotics is guilty of an offence. If this consumption generates madness, which results in a murderous act, then we say that the individual in question must be punished otherwise than by the year of imprisonment that currently punishes the consumption of narcotics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u360	That's not what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u361	That's what we can do. If we decided to try him for the crime committed, then we would cross the red line that I didn't want to cross and that many of you don't want to cross, the one that would be to try a madman. We don't want to. There you go. You see, Mr. Aubert, I'm telling you and you'll do whatever you want...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u362	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u363	... since of course, your freedom of speech is total: there are subjects that should reach consensus, in a trans-partisan way. For my part, I tried to think about how to fill the legal vacuum...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u364	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u365	...emphasized by the highest jurisdiction in our country, and I think we are achieving it, in a balanced way and even – I have the weakness to think – subtle. We can't tackle the principles we're talking about with the axe! When you suggest, as soon as you first amend, that it is possible to condemn someone who has inadvertently consumed narcotics, I think the debate is quite poorly engaged. I think we could find a consensus on this issue. We have managed to fill the void that the Court of Cassation has pointed out to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u366	There's no emptiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u367	That is, in essence, the objective that we must pursue. You mustn't mix everything! I have heard some arguments that may suggest this, but it is not at all about giving impunity to those who have smoked or consumed narcotic and psychotropic products. Not at all! Hear me well: experts must conclude that discernment has been abolished. In fact, during my career as a lawyer, I observed it: in general, people who told the judge that they had been drinking or taking drugs are more severely condemned. It is a jurisprudential reality and I think the lawyers and magistrates who are here know that. On the other hand, there was a hole that we came to fill. I did it without political back-thinking...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u368	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u369	There is only Mr Bernalicis to think that, but it is not very serious; It's against everything anyway, by definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u370	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u371	Against everything you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u372	We passed the bioethics law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u373	I want to tell you, honourable Member, that we can find a solution to this question. Moreover, I have not been indifferent to the proposals made by some of you – I am thinking of what Mr Savignat has come to say to me in the Committee on Laws. On several subjects, we have done a work of co-construction. I am still a little confused to see that we are able to work in this way with some members of your political family, while others are choosing the ground of controversy and electorism; this subject deserves better than that. I don't think you're going to be on this field, Mr. Aubert, especially since you are, I'm told, a magistrate of formation; So you know the principles that prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u374	We don't have much responsibility at the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u375	You were at the Court of Auditors, of course, but finally, the principles in question are also in force and they have been taught to you. So I'm a little bit sided. [[Mr Julien Aubert exclaimed]] So this is what I want to say, very kindly, and you will then give our debates the turn you will hear from them! When we start by saying that we can condemn someone who has not voluntarily taken psychotropic products, I say no! I say no! It's an impassable limit! But actually, you have a lot of audacity right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u376	Thank you, Mr. Aubert. We have spoken a lot about these amendments and I propose that we put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u377	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u378	I believe that this debate deserves better, Mr. Keeper of Seals, than the anathemas and polemics that you have with the talent that is yours when you are a little in trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u379	It suits you, to say that...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u380	Your text is not up to the emotion raised in the country by the anti-Semitic murder of Sarah Halimi. That's the reality! He did not live up to the remarks made at the time by the President of the Republic. Article 1 comes in response to its order, but in reality it will be totally inoperative. Indeed, in order for the perpetrator of an act of extreme gravity to be exempt from criminal irresponsibility, you have established a cumulation of criteria which are in fact inapplicable and which no court can prove. You say you mustn't judge the fools: we all agree! What we are asking is that, contrary to the case law of the Court of Cassation, when someone commits a crime after having consumed a psychotropic product, after having voluntarily drugged himself – when you use drugs, it is voluntary – it does not lead to criminal irresponsibility. You add a criterion: he must have drugged himself "for the purpose of committing the offence",...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u381	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u382	...that he thus gives himself courage to commit a crime, thanks to the use of a psychotropic. It's totally inapplicable! The device will be completely inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u383	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You didn't read the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u384	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What we are saying is simple: someone who voluntarily drugs himself cannot be exempted from his responsibility when he commits a crime, a fortiori an anti-Semitic crime which is a total abomination.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u385	We agree! That's the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u386	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u387	I'm gonna have a hard time sticking to two minutes. No secrets between us: I passed on the conclusions of a report from a background and field work of which I am very proud. This is the information report of the Committee on Social Affairs in conclusion of the work of the mission on the organisation of mental health, which relates to the ill-being of psychiatry in our country. I'll talk to him a lot during the evening. Let us agree, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, and ladies and gentlemen, that the term "mad" no longer exists. I remind you that in the last century, this category included homosexuals. We'll talk about psychological or psychiatric disorders, but crazy people don't exist. It's important. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you spoke earlier about someone who would drug himself – these are also very important terms – "knowingly". Can it be said that a person in a situation of psychological ill-being, when smoking an illicit substance, does so knowingly? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u388	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u389	When you need to smoke illegal substances, it's bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u390	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u391	But you can lift your arms up! In France – it's French culture – when you go wrong, you drink a drink; A lot of people do. Other people, when they go wrong, smoke weed. That's something we have to deal with! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Why, in France, do we keep closing psychiatry beds? Why, in France, does the numerus clausus cause a constant decrease in the number of psychiatrists? Why isn't there enough psychologists in France? Why, in France, do people who suffer from psychological and psychiatric ill-being find themselves in the streets, without care, without supervision and without a dedicated route?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u392	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u393	We find ourselves with a law, Mr. Keeper of the Seals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u394	Mrs. Fiat, we have to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u395	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...which deals with a consequence rather than addressing the cause. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u396	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u397	I believe that our nation is not prepared to change its fundamentals to a subject on which an open debate between citizens has not taken place. Of course, the emotion aroused in the opinion by various tragic facts is understood. It is justifiable and legitimate, but, unfortunately, such a law will not provide an answer and will not stop inexplicable violence. It is risky to question a cardinal principle of our criminal law; Most of the time, it would be very complicated to provide evidence of the intention to demonstrate the voluntary nature of the act committed by the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u398	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u399	After the decision of the Court of Cassation of 14 April last, given in the dreadful Sarah Halimi case, the regime of criminal irresponsibility required urgent corrections in order to fill the loopholes. The decision that confirmed the criminal irresponsibility of Sarah Halimi's murderer aroused a very strong emotion and fostered an intolerable sense of injustice. You repeated it at length in committee, minister: clause 1 of the bill is not an answer to the Sarah Halimi case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u400	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u401	On the contrary, it targets the individual who has decided to commit a crime – murder or terrorist attack – who has matured his project but who, for whatever reason, either by instinct of survival, or because he is taken scruples, or out of fear, simply, does not manage to act without the help of psychoactive substances. I have not been able to make myself heard in committee, in any case not about this article – apparently it will be better on the following ones. But I will try again here: if I agree with you when you think that the individual who has absorbed toxic substances to give himself courage before taking action can no longer be declared irresponsible – that is a good thing – it seems to me that we could also foresee that such consumption – the absorption of psychoactive substances – is in itself and by itself an aggravating circumstance. We have discussed this at length in committee: the intentional element, "in the intention of committing the offence", will indeed be very difficult to prove, and we cannot risk missing out on situations that are more dramatic than each other. We must avoid leaving areas of shadow in this bill, and the voluntary use of psychoactive substances should be sufficient to characterize the offence referred to in the new section 122-1-1 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u402	We come to the amendments. I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 72, 141, 271 and 280, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u403	I have a doubt: are we talking about the same text, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u404	I'm asking myself the same question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u405	It's up to you to tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u406	To hear your words and your denials, I have the impression that this is not the case – unless it is provocation but you are not customary; I don't think so on your part. The provisions of the new article 122-1-1 of the Criminal Code which is before us provide that, in order for criminal responsibility to be recognized, an individual who intends to commit an offence must have used one or more drugs in order to promote the commission of the offence. The investigation should therefore demonstrate that it intended to commit the offence before consuming the substance that temporarily abolished its discernment. The new system would therefore not have prevented the author of the heinous anti-Semitic act of murder of Sarah Halimi from being declared criminally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u407	No, that's not the point! It's still amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u408	The text is therefore not up to the challenges and does not respond to the problem. There's no criminal liability left. It's finally very simple: you use drugs, you kill, and then you're exempt from your responsibilities. That is why I propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u409	You have not understood that Article 1 does not concern the Halimi case! That's Article 2!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u410	Amendment No 141 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u411	If I also ask for the deletion of Article 1, it is not for the reasons just set out. Sarah Halimi's abominable murder gave rise to a reflection leading to the present text, with the idea of filling a gap and avoiding a new judgement of criminal irresponsibility in such cases. However, it seems to me that Article 1, as formulated, does not respond to anything and is not in line with reality. In fact, it is totally impossible to prove that taking a psychotropic or other active substance conceals a murder intent. We're dealing with people with psychic difficulties. In fact, I hear we're talking about "mental illness," which is a terrible embarrassment to me. I will probably speak several times about these notions of ordinary madness in the course of the debates because we really need to be very clear about the words and definitions in this area. In any case, a person with a psychiatric or psychological problem and who consumes a substance must be evaluated by experts, each case being profoundly different and quite particular. Article 1e r does not meet this need and does not provide a solution in line with reality. In addition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u412	We have to conclude, Mrs. Wonner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u413	...consumption and its effects are very different from one person to another. This reductive vision does not seem to me to be responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u414	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u415	Let us summarize for the people who listen to us because we are in an extraordinary "at the same time." We will fill an alleged hole in the racket that would have been highlighted by the Advocate General at the Court of Cassation through Articles 1, 2 and 3. In doing so, we note that these measures would not have changed anything at the end of the Sarah Halimi case procedure – the finding appears in the impact statement and is assumed by the Minister. If there was a hole in this case, you still haven't filled it with these articles. Stop pretending the opposite. Perhaps you fill another hole in another racket? In that case, it is another debate. This is what you are doing because you realize that it would not have been possible to achieve another judicial result in the Sarah Halimi case without affecting criminal irresponsibility. You still want to say, do, condemn something. You still want to create a crime, a new crime. We are typically in the case where the answer to each problem is to create a new crime. This is how Article 1 reinforces a form of case law or, at worst, opens a breach. Good courage to show that the person intended to commit a murder at the time of the taking of narcotics and that it was then intended to benefit from an abolition of discernment! In fact, I repeat, this would not have applied to the case of the heinous murder of Mrs. Sarah Halimi.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u416	We all agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u417	So what is the point of what you are doing here, minister, except to respond politically to a legitimate emotion in the country. What is the point if it is to make politics, to shake fears, especially about illness, mental disorders?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u418	Please conclude, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u419	You say, look, faced with these dangerous people, we're going to do something! It is unbearable and we will oppose it every time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u420	What is the Committee's opinion on the deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u421	Does article 1 answer Sarah Halimi's case? Of course not and it was never his object. The enormous confusion in this regard gives the impression that everyone has rushed to the text without reading it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u422	Are you talking about the Council of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u423	Stop saying that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u424	Let her talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u425	Before responding to the criticisms, I will repeat what Article 1 is: it deals with those who take psychoactive substances to give themselves courage and act. The offence is already in the head of the criminal. In the execution phase, the taking of substances – drugs, for example – is then only a modus operandi. In concrete terms, we are in the case of ordinary offences, rather sordid cases where a person takes cocaine to kill relatives – I say it knowingly since such facts of the day have existed. We are also thinking of the capture of Captagon by terrorist jihadists who want to give themselves courage to perpetrate an attack, a phenomenon which the press has often echoed. We are absolutely not in the case of Sarah Halimi, where there was deliberate poisoning but where the criminal did not want the effects. To the authors of the amendments to Article 1, who still accuse us of not dealing with the Sarah Halimi case, I reply: indeed, we will have the debate related to this case during the examination of Article 2. Let us turn to the criticisms of article 1. The device would be adapted to rare cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u426	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u427	It is true and so much the better: fortunately, such cases do not occur every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u428	Meanwhile, psychiatry is in PLS!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u429	Another criticism: the criminal project would be impossible to establish. It will be up to the proceedings and the trial to prove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u430	As with all offences!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u431	Exactly! Regardless of the offences, evidence must be provided. There may be writings, messages. With the new technologies, we can go very far to establish the facts. Ultimately, this article merely codifies an existing practice. This is the only criticism I can hear and to which I would reply: it is better for us, legislators, to climb it into the marble than to rely on the custom of the courts, which could change in the future. I am therefore against all the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u433	The Government is accused of acting under the influence of emotion, when, as I have tried to say on many occasions, this is not the case: we have consulted a great deal and taken the time. At the same time, and by some sort of oxymore, you blame us for considering what the other holes were in a matter that is quite close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u434	In the snowshoe!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u435	For my part, I do not want there to be a new injustice. Perhaps once and for all, I will try to be clear: if it had existed, article 1 would not have allowed Mrs. Halimi's murderer to be tried. That's very clear. Article 1 deals with the hypothesis, and that would be rare, or an individual would, for example, take a substance called Captagon to commit a terrorist act. Foreign countries, which had to judge such acts, had that in their legislation. While these cases have been brought to our attention, we should have ignored them while waiting for a terrorist to take this substance with the will to commit a terrorist act. What would you have said? However, Article 1 in no way resolves the question raised in the Halimi case. It is Article 2 that will resolve this issue...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u436	No more!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u437	... by saying two things again. First: you cannot judge the madman in the sense that you traditionally hear him. To quote me the look on homosexuals at another time is not appropriate: this is insulting to me because you have understood well that, for me, the madman is the one who is suffering from madness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u438	Psychiatric disorders!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u439	Please, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u440	Everyone heard it that way, except La France insoubted as usual. He who has an endogenous, psychiatric, mental illness cannot be judged, but there is one whose abolition of discernment comes from the fact that he has voluntarily consumed narcotics. Here's the distinction. We cannot rewrite history but this provision fits perfectly with this hole, with the lack that the Court of Cassation reminds us of, the Public Prosecutor's Office...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u441	Absolutely not! That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u442	[[Ms. Danièle Obono and Mr. Ugo Bernalicis protest]] You can say it's not true, but it's the exact truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u443	Please, Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u444	[[Same movements]] Your method consists of "that's not true! "It's all we have to do! We have been working on these measures for months, and that is perfectly correct. We have consulted a number of magistrates whose opinions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u445	They are unanimous against your text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u446	... are worth the ones you throw at the coin for the sole purpose of making nihilism, as usual.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u447	The former presidents of the Law Committee will be delighted to know that you are taking their work into consideration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u448	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u449	Article 2 fills this hole which has been explained to us by the Court of Cassation and, pardoned to tell the legislator, it is necessary for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u450	[[Mr Aubert exclaimed]] Mrs Dubost, Mrs Fiat and Mr Aubert asked for the floor. In view of the time we have left, I give them a minute each, not two! The warning applies especially to you, Mr. Aubert! Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u451	I am surprised to see that, on part of the benches of the Chamber, we are offended by this Article 1e r, which, in deceit, reaffirms criminal irresponsibility except in cases of premeditation, it would seem commonly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u452	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u453	Finally, if I refer to what you have said in general discussion, this article is quite satisfactory for you. Your deletion amendments are totally inconsistent with your previous speech. Article 1 is very clear: it says criminal irresponsibility is maintained unless you have premeditated the act and use the drug as a tool to commit the alleged acts. It's simple. Article 2, which we will have time to discuss this night, will resolve other types of situations. Article 1e r seems to me to be symbolically important....
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u454	He's impassable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u455	[[Mr. Hervé Berville applauds]] ... precisely because it reinforces the fundamental principles of our criminal law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u456	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor. You have a minute, like your colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u457	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I have just checked in the Larousse that the term "mad" is no longer appropriate, that it is no longer used. It is not La France insoumée that says it, but the Larousse. We're legislating here, but we're going to ask the judge to guess when the person took an illegal substance: when she was in crisis or before?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u458	He won't guess anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u459	He won't guess anything, he'll have proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u460	Last year, when we examined the Social Security Financing Bill, we voted...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u461	Thank you, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u462	... authorisation to take these substances as part of the treatment of certain diseases. What are we going to do for the sick people who take...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u463	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u464	This article looks at those who intended to kill when they took drugs. It could therefore eventually be applied to Nazirites, to the Hachichims who, on the order of the Old Mountain, took opium to go to kill. In that case, the link was very clear. I'm afraid everyone else says they took drugs but they didn't want to kill. As for those who would like to apply article 2, they will say that they have taken drugs without knowing that it could lead them to kill. Whether it is section 1 or section 2, I find it very difficult to understand how the judge can prove the animus necandi – the intention to kill, since you claim to make law – unless he obtains a confession, which, in the case of a terrorist, may be complicated, or where presumptions of fact are induced, which are subject to interpretation. I do not understand why, in drafting Article 1, you did not stop after the words "psychoactive substances": you would have defined a very clear mechanism. If we go into the details of the text, it is the notion of "the purpose of committing the offence" that poses a problem. How can we prove the individual's knowledge of the fact that the consumption of a substance is likely to lead him to commit crimes against life, as provided for in Article 2, or his intention to commit an offence, knowing that it is not enough to juxtapose the taking of drugs and murder, but to prove that there is a logical link between the two? I wish you good luck, because all this is not very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u465	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u466	We will be able to discuss the question of "knowledge" during the discussion of section 2, Mr.Aubert. To answer Ms. Fiat, the judge does not guess: he does not have a crystal ball in his office, in which he looks to see if the author was "mad" or suffering from a psychiatric illness – absolutely not! It is based on the expert's analysis of a retrospective diagnosis, forensic analysis, and all other documents in the file, such as testimony, history, or the author's behaviour. It's on that basis. That's his job.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u467	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u468	A very small clarification: the word "mad" has fortunately remained in the Larousse, in the Robert and in other dictionaries. If you have a phone, you can check it immediately: by typing "mad" in Google, you will find a definition evoking mental pathology, and not homosexuality. I'm closing this parenthesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u469	I indicated that, according to the Larousse, this term is no longer used in psychiatry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u470	[[Mr Julien Aubert exclaimed]] Mr. Aubert, I'm sorry to question you, but is it, to your knowledge, an offence for which the judge does not have to report proof of intent? There's none!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u471	The word "mad" is no longer used in psychiatry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u472	Everyone knows that it is difficult to provide this proof, but there are a number of rules, which are those of probation. It's not about guessing: you don't ask the judge to be a psychic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u473	I just checked: the word "mad" is no longer used in psychiatry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u474	It's unbearable, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u475	Don't play this game, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u476	Fiat Lux!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u477	It was the minister himself who asked me to look on my phone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u478	[[Ms. Danièle Obono exclaimed]] If you persist, I will apply the Rules of Procedure to the letter, as you know very well: only two speakers will be able to speak and your group will not have the floor! Stop interrupting the minister. No one's stopped you from speaking. Therefore, have the respect to listen to those who, belonging to another camp, provide elements of response,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u479	They don't bring any!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u480	...even if they do not satisfy you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u481	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-09-21-E3001.u482	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security. The meeting is adjourned.
