ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft finance bill for 2022 (No. 4709, 4787).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to meet with you today to begin the re-reading of the Finance Bill (FPL) for 2022. The text you voted on at first reading, the last PLF of the quinquennium, finances the main priorities set by the Government and the Assembly for the coming years. It marks real progress, of which we can be proud: rearmament of the sovereign missions of the State; massive support for the most precarious; investment in youth and the future through increased funding for education, research and ecological transition. It's a good budget, up to our ambitions and what the French deserve. You are aware of the commitments made by the Government and the President of the Republic in this PLF: this quinquennium marks an unprecedented reduction in the taxation of both companies and households. More than 50 billion euros were returned to the French. In this regard, we have not deviated from the principle that has always guided our action: to say what we are doing and to do what we are saying. I regret the decision of the Senate not to pursue the budget discussion that we have begun on the first part of the text; by rejecting the rule of balance, he rejected the text in its entirety. However, I am confident that this new reading will provide an opportunity for further improvements. We will be able to substantially refine this bill around three priorities. The first is to refine the support and protection mechanisms that we have put in place at the end of the crisis. The second is to continue to support the economy towards the end of the crisis despite the uncertainty of the health situation. The third is to confirm the State's support for local and regional authorities; This PLF wants to mark the deepening of close cooperation with the latter. We approach this new reading with the experience of our fight against the covid crisis. We want to refine some of the support mechanisms for households and businesses, which are accompanying our country on its way out of the crisis. The tariff shield is an essential instrument for protecting the purchasing power of our citizens in the face of rising energy prices – I will submit amendments to supplement it. I will therefore be happy to discuss the implementation of a mechanism complementary to the existing tariff shield system, which freezes gas prices and limits the increase in electricity prices to 4%, as we had committed ourselves to it, and although price increases may prove to be more important than we imagined a few weeks ago. The mechanism we offer, which complements and enriches the devices introduced at first reading, is simple. In the exceptional context of price increases we are experiencing today, it allows the Government to derogate from the tariff proposed by the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) to smooth up price increases, avoid the return of electricity tariffs and better protect households. Small suppliers will be able to benefit from a cash advance pending tariff offsets. This mechanism will allow our fellow citizens to calmly approach the period ahead, with energy price developments becoming very uncertain. The strengthening of the tariff shield reinforces all the other measures deployed in this PLF in support of the living standards of the French. To help people in the most precarious situations, it was decided to maintain 190,000 emergency accommodation places throughout the year 2022. This is a record. Funding for emergency accommodation will thus have increased from 1.8 billion euros to 2.7 billion euros between 2017 and 2022: this increase is unprecedented. This PLF supports the most precarious and encourages work, in particular by allowing for the desocialization and desocialisation of tips paid to employees with incomes below 1.6 SMIC. I welcome the initiative of the presidential majority on this subject. This majority took their share of responsibility in this fight. I regard as a collective victory the adoption of an amendment extending the ceiling of the "Coluche" tax advantage by two years, in order to encourage donations to aid organisations for the most deprived in times of crisis. Beyond purchasing power, the discussion of this text also ensured the protection of the French against health risks. The PLF thus provides for the extension until 31 December 2022 of the application of VAT at the reduced rate of 5.5% on protective masks and hydro-alcoholic gels. It will also be proposed to generalise this measure to personal protective equipment, and I thank all Members for their contributions and the improvements thus allowed. We also pay particular attention to business support schemes. We are proposing an additional EUR 150 million for airports to cover the safety and security costs of this sector severely affected by the health crisis. As we did during the crisis, without failing to speak, we will continue to support the sectors that are being challenged by the changing health environment. This advance will be reimbursed by air transport dynamics in the coming years. Tourism has also been particularly affected by the pandemic: the Prime Minister announced an additional response to this sector with the Destination France plan. We will therefore propose to include the necessary credits in the public guarantee fund for travel and subsistence operators. However, these devices do not mean a return to "no matter what it costs." In the face of the crisis, we made decisions that were urgent. We are now in the time of tailor-made. Without in any way ignoring the extreme necessity of "whatever it costs" at the height of the crisis, we have returned to refined public action, more nuanced and less costly for our fellow citizens, without leaving aside the necessary measures to strengthen our economy. We will target the aid provided as well as the sectors supported. Parliament and the Government have worked together to extend certain crisis mechanisms, such as the Solidarity Fund, which can be opened by decree. However, it will be implemented on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the real economic and financial needs of applicants, taking into account the level of fixed costs. In other words, this PLF marks the transition from "whatever it costs" to "whatever it happens", in the direct continuity of improving our public finance performance. As such, I am pleased to recall that the debt and deficit forecasts for our State are better than those we feared in April 2021. We will pursue our target of 5% public deficit by 2022, as we committed to it when the PLF was presented last September. As a reminder, last April, we feared 5.3% deficit for 2022. This is the right balance between the infallible support we have given to economic actors and the preservation of the financial capacity of the State, which makes possible the economic results we know, which must be encouraged in the context of a gradual exit from crisis mechanisms. The results of our action are undeniably positive: the French economy is moving forward vigorously and alongside European summits with at least 6.25% GDP growth in 2021 and 4% in 2022. Instead, the Bank of France forecasts growth for 2021 of 6.7%, which would result in new revenues to reduce the government deficit by 2021. For our citizens, this exceptional economic environment has very direct consequences: the unemployment rate has thus stabilized below 8% of the working population, at the lowest in more than ten years. The employment rate stands at 67.5%, the highest level since 1975, which means that we are in the process of succeeding in reducing the employment of men and women who were permanently away from it. We have already achieved the objective of returning to our pre-crisis level of activity, which we had set ourselves by 2022. With this PLF, we want to encourage and strengthen these economic results. That is why we asked you to adopt the necessary appropriations for the France 2030 investment plan, amounting to €3.5 billion in payment appropriations (CP) and €34 billion in commitment authorisations (EA). These spending, appropriations and actions are accompanied by an ambitious skills investment plan, the cornerstone of sustainable and as inclusive growth as possible. For example, EUR 15 billion has been mobilised since the beginning of the quinquennium to develop the skills of people furthest away from employment or with disabilities, and to respond to the challenges of tomorrow's economy, by enabling companies to rely on trained people whose skills meet their need for competitiveness. We are continuing our efforts for business and innovation. The PLF for 2022 voted at first reading already reflected great progress in this area. In particular, the tax credit for collaborative research will help to maintain an incentive to subcontract research spending to public bodies despite the disappearance of the double base mechanism for the research tax credit, which will expire on January 1. This is the demonstration that we can find innovative solutions to meet our public policy objectives. I will give a favourable opinion on the majority amendment to raise the ceiling for expenditure eligible for this 'collaboration' tax credit; It goes in the right direction and allows us to take a step in supporting innovation and research. These aids are welcome to support our economy in its recovery momentum. However, they do not constitute a blank-sing for expenditure: this is why the PLF provides for new tools in the fight against tax fraud. The bill substantially improves the effectiveness of prevention and control mechanisms. It strengthens the fight against tax fraud by, for example, opening up the possibility for commercial court clerks to alert the tax administration, or by facilitating the detection of tobacco smuggling in e-commerce parcels. It also extends, for two years, the experiment aimed at paying tax advisers. As a reminder, this system was created in 2016 to allow the tax administration to compensate those who would have provided it with information that led to the discovery of a breach of international tax rules. The effectiveness of this action is no longer to be demonstrated: as of 1 September 2021, they had made it possible to recover EUR 110.32 million of duties and penalties. We wish to continue with this system, and I welcome the work of both the majority and the opposition on this subject. Beyond fraud, I presented at first reading a number of measures aimed at ending "tax gaps", i.e. loopholes in tax legislation that are contrary to our objectives to combat tax optimisation schemes. Finally, the new reading of this PLF will allow us to adjust the arrangements put in place in favour of local and regional authorities, as since the beginning of this quinquennium. Our discussions will allow us to draw the consequences of amendments adopted at first reading, but also to supplement the amount of constitutional guarantees that we owe to the regions because of the powers transferred to them. For example, we will propose adjusting their share of the domestic consumption tax on energy products (ICTPE). This new reading also allows us to clarify the modalities of experimenting with the recentralisation of active solidarity income (RSA) for the departments which will apply before 30 June 2022 and which will enter into the experiment on 1 January 2023, in line with article 35 of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (3DS). Finally, it allows us to co-finance with the regions the training leading to the diplomas of nurses and health-care workers amounting to EUR 139 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 39 million in payment appropriations. This strong and symbolic measure allows us to accompany and improve the training of the medical professions, to which we owe so much. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This budget is fair and serious, it reflects our results and strengthens our policy. It enables investment in future growth and supports the quinquennium's broad orientations, as well as measures taken to address the crises we have encountered since then. The new reading of this PLF should provide an opportunity to continue our efforts and consolidate the provisions we propose. I thank you for the work carried out in the Committee on Finance and in this House since the beginning of the examination of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u5	On November 23, the Senate rejected, at first reading, the balancing clause of the 2022 Finance Bill. He thus, in fact, rejected the text as a whole. Consequently, the Joint Joint Committee (JCJ), which met on 1 December, could only note the impossibility of drawing up a common text. The Senate motivated its rejection of the PLF for 2022 by arguing that public spending would not be controlled. It is true that, when the text was discussed in the National Assembly at first reading, the Government proposed new budgetary measures to ensure the implementation of the France 2030 plan, the Young Engagement Contract (JEC) and the plan to reduce recruitment tensions. All these provisions were then largely, if not unanimously, approved on the benches of the National Assembly. Had the Senate examined the appropriations in the second part of the text in public, would it have refused to adopt these new means? In any event, it does not appear from the work of its Finance Committee on the tasks of the State budget that the Senate was in the process of abolishing these arrangements. Nor did it propose to reduce other budget allocations to move from speeches to acts of budgetary rigour. It is more than regrettable that the Senate did not reflect its intentions in its vote. The control of public expenditure is arduous enough not to deprive oneself of a practical exercise, especially when advocated. It is true that it is easier to refuse the expenditure barrier and to keep the ability to expand the deficit by examining only the fiscal component of the finance bill, as the Senate has done. Fiscal balance cannot be defined either as a guarantee of new, indeed costly tax measures, or as a mere prospect of return in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, as proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u7	I also note that the latter did not question the tariff shield put in place in order to limit the increase in the cost of electricity and gas for the French. [[Mrs Stella Dupont, Catherine Osson and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applaud]] In summary, the Senate has simply demonstrated, if necessary, that a political posture is not an effective strategy for controlling public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u9	It is therefore up to the National Assembly to vote again on the text it adopted on 16 November, without the benefit of the work of the shuttle, which is nevertheless at the heart of the bicameral function. The 2022 Finance Bill contains important provisions on purchasing power. First of all, the indexation of the income tax (IR) instalments on non-tobacco inflation, which represents a 1.5 billion euro gain in purchasing power for taxpayers subject to income tax, will be added to the one linked to the gradual and soon definitive abolition of the housing tax for all French citizens. Let us also remember the security of the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home and the defiance of tips while the hotel and catering sector has been particularly affected by the health crisis and which it struggles to recruit to respond to a vigorous recovery in consumption. Finally, let us recall the welcome extension, in the current health context, of the reduced VAT rate of 5.5% on masks and hydro-alcoholic gel. This text also reflects part of the plan in favour of the self-employed, with the simplification and extension of the option periods for the tax systems specific to their results, the improvement of the schemes for the divestiture of their business and the temporary possibility, at the end of the crisis, of tax depreciation of their commercial funds. In addition, this bill contains a series of consistent provisions to combat tax evasion and evasion. The first is the creation of a presumption of ownership of 10 per cent of trust entities for the taxation of income from States with preferential tax regimes. This is then the possibility for the tax administration to sanction VAT fraud based on fictitious exports. Finally, these measures are the result of the work presented on 29 September by Eric Woerth, the Chairman of the Finance Committee, and Zivka Park, as part of the information mission on tobacco consumption and the efficiency of its taxation during confinement. Provision is made for an extension of the presumption of fraud to packages containing tobacco shipped from France and a doubling of fines for the illicit manufacture, possession, sale or transport of tobacco. This bill also contains strong measures in favour of housing. In addition to the extensions and adjustments to the zero-rate loan schemes (ZTPs), a major reform of the "Affordable Rent" tax deduction scheme is under way. It is based on its transformation into a tax reduction and on the favour granted to social and very social rental intermediation. In addition, the concomitant preservation of the tax advantage enjoyed by the construction of intermediate rental housing and the tax resources of the municipal block is permitted by the replacement of a 20-year land tax exemption on built properties (TFPB) with a corporation tax credit of the same amount and for the same period. Similarly, the loss of TFPB resulting from the exemption granted to the production of registered social rental housing until 30 June 2026 will be fully compensated by the State to the local authorities for ten years. This text also promotes new public policies. This is the case with the France 2030 plan, with €34 billion in commitment authorisations over the next decade and €3.5 billion in payment appropriations as early as 2022. While unemployment results have been unprecedented for 15 years and many sectors find it difficult to recruit, an additional effort of more than EUR 1 billion is planned for the work and employment mission in order, on the one hand, to better support the young people furthest from the labour market, through the creation of the young contract of engagement giving rise to the receipt of an allowance and, on the other hand, to carry out the plan to reduce the recruitment tensions announced by the Prime Minister on 27 September 2021. Finally, this draft finance law contains many provisions in favour of local and regional authorities. I will not go back to the measures in favour of protecting the product of the TFPB sitting on new housing. Let us remember again and again: the overall operating allocation (GF) will be stable in 2022, for the fifth year in a row, in accordance with the commitment made at the beginning of the quinquennium, and contrary to the very marked decrease observed at the previous quinquennium. This text also provides an opportunity to respond in detail to the concrete problems encountered by certain local and regional authorities. For example, it provides for compensation to the regions, for more than 10 million euros, for the effects of the fall in production taxes, as well as the budgetary means and the guarantee of the State, in favour of the reconstruction and renovation of many schools in Marseille, following the announcement of the Marseille plan in large. During the discussion of the text on a new reading, the Finance Committee did little to change the text it had adopted at first reading. However, on the proposal of Mrs Sage, Mr Pahun and Mrs Panonacle, the Commission has endeavoured to increase the excess depreciation for the acquisition of auxiliary decarbonised propulsion from 20 to 105 %. I then gave an opinion of wisdom because this is an important issue, while stressing that the agreed rate should certainly be reviewed in the sitting. Ultimately, this draft finance bill foresees a government deficit reduced to 5% of GDP, after a forecast of 8.2% in 2021. In 2022, the debt ratio stood at 113.5 per cent of GDP, compared with 115.3 per cent in 2021. These developments, which are encouraging in view of our country's ability to control its public finances in the future, are the result of the anticipated decline in emergency expenditure related to the health crisis. However, it should be borne in mind that the protection of the French will continue to have a cost in 2022. From a health point of view, it can be hoped that it will only be residual for the State budget, even if social expenditure on vaccines and tests will remain legitimately high. With regard to the "whatever it costs", if new funding were to be allowed for the emergency mission, it would unfortunately mean that the epidemic is not behind us. With regard to the fight against price rises, the collective effort, already massive in 2021, will continue in 2022, with the anticipated reduction of the internal tax on final electricity consumption (TICFE) for EUR 5.9 billion, the inflation allowance for EUR 3.8 billion and the aid provided to companies which are subject to the blockage of gas prices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore propose that you pass this finance bill again. It is almost the same text as the one adopted at first reading: it has only been amended to take account of the few advances I have just proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u10	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u11	We are nearing the end of the budget review for 2022, the last of this quinquennium. This year will have been exceptional in many ways: by the health crisis that was thought to be over but which, unfortunately, does not seem to be stopping; by the extent of the funds mobilized to support our economy – 90 billion euros of recovery and support expenditure in 2021; by the extent of the increase in current expenditure in times of crisis – 48 billion euros in 2021 and 100 billion euros in three years. It will also have been done, Mr.Minister Delegate, by the record number of amendments tabled by the Government on the text. I had also raised the subject at first reading when almost 130 amendments had been tabled at the last minute. This is obviously a way of avoiding serious scrutiny by the committee, since we do not have time to look at them. This is still the case this time. For this new reading, some forty amendments have still been tabled by the Government, which are obviously not just deletion amendments: there was no question of re-establishing a text which, in substance, is that of the National Assembly. The copy that we are correcting today until the last moment is the same one that we adopted at first reading on 16 November. The Government continues to constantly amend its own text, no doubt in order to adapt to the current situation. This inflation of the number of amendments has led to a deterioration of the state's fiscal and budgetary balance, since at the end of the first reading you have reduced the revenue by EUR 5 billion compared to the balance presented in the original draft law and increased the expenditure by EUR 6.8 billion, due to the additional budgetary appropriations. In the end, the government's deficit deteriorated by almost EUR 12 billion compared to the original finance law, reaching EUR 155 billion, notably due to the France 2030 investment plan – the provision of payment appropriations amounting to EUR 3.5 billion, for example, in 2022 – measures for skills development and integration into employment – Young contract, a plan to reduce recruitment tensions – or measures taken to deal with inflation, particularly in the field of energy, through the energy premium. I'd like to focus a little on this last one. By the end of September 2021, regulated electricity prices were expected to increase by approximately 12% by February or March 2022, due to rapid price growth in wholesale markets. To deal with this, section 8d of the 2022 Finance Bill provides that the rates of the TICF for residential users will be reduced in order to limit the increase in regulated electricity tariffs, scheduled for February 2022, to an average of 4%. However, the forecast for the growth of regulated electricity tariffs has been revised upwards over the past few days: an increase of between 20 and 25 per cent – compared to an initial estimate of 12 per cent – is now reported in 2022. The application of a simple arithmetic rule leads to a total cost of almost EUR 12 billion. In other words, even a total suspension of the TICF would not in itself compensate for the extra cost of the tariff shield, since the total revenue of this tax is EUR 8 billion. To deal with this worsening situation, you introduced an amendment at first reading which provides for a regulated freeze on gas sales. You now want to have an equivalent measure adopted for regulated electricity sales tariffs. To do this, you need to free yourself from the CRE's recommendations in order to set a regulated selling tariff below what it should be, designed to ensure price stability. At first reading, you estimated the various measures voted to contain the rise in electricity and gas prices at just over EUR 5 billion for the loss of tax revenue on electricity and EUR 1.2 billion for gas suppliers. The situation in which we are faced with the dramatic rise in energy prices, particularly those of electricity, is delicate. No one can reasonably impute it to you, but you bet that the increase will not last next year and that everything will come back in order in the coming months. It's a very risky bet. What if this increase continues? What's Plan C going to be? One can legitimately question a possible further deterioration of the budgetary balance for 2022, that you keep to 5% whatever happens. I understand that the impact of the crisis, uncertainties about the future and tensions of all kinds translate into deficits and additional expenditure. However, since the beginning of this quinquennium, you have been unable to make it clear that public finances are your priority, which I regret. Your message could have been to prove to all French people that public finances are part of our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u12	Please conclude, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u13	That was also the meaning of the message sent yesterday by the President of the Republic at his press conference on the French presidency of the European Union. Let us never forget that the financial situation of the French is linked, whether we like it or not, to the financial situation of France. Candidates in the next presidential election should meditate more deeply on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u14	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u15	This is probably one of the last — or even the last — interventions in this Parliament that I will make in this forum on a finance bill. So let me go back to these five years of budget debate with you – I say "discussion" but I could say "soliloquis" because that was often the case. I will therefore come back over the past five years to explain this umpteenth motion of rejection. Indeed, like all the previous ones that we have tabled, it expresses an opposition, not in principle but in substance, a political opposition, in the noble sense of the term, to the way society is managed. In this respect, fiscal policy is the policy of policies, the policy that determines all the others, the policy that has direct consequences for people's lives, the policy, above all, that which reflects your vision of society: a society of competition of all against all, which makes the proper functioning of the financialized capitalist system take precedence, whatever it produces, whatever it destroys, and which measures its success in terms of GDP growth rather than that of human well-being, by making it believe that the latter depends on the former. These are substantive political discussions that have never been initiated. Worse still, they have been swept away, as is evident from a reflection by the former rapporteur-general, who once told me about an amendment on the reduction of VAT on water, which he knew by heart our "political amendments" – a lapsus, probably, which, however, says a lot about your conception of the policy, reduced to accounting management, forced by the European framework. We're not Bercy's clerks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u16	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u17	Yet it is to this role that you reduce us, closing our debates in an accounting vision. Let's look at the balance sheet of these accounts. First of all, there is a weakening of the state, which should, more than ever, be the guarantor of the nation's social cohesion, which is now being undermined. There is also an unprecedented weakening of the state's tax revenues, under the pretext of competitiveness or renewed purchasing power: the abolition of the ISF, the solidarity tax on wealth, and the introduction of the flat tax, at a cost of EUR 5 billion per year; lower production taxes, at a cost of 10 billion per year; lower housing tax, at a cost of 17.6 billion per year. Another effect of your policy is a relaxation of tax consent, due to the growing sense of inequity with tax evasion. Indeed, many have been the financial scandals of this quinquennium, from Panama Papers to the recent Pandora Papers. Mr. Le Maire may have been flaunting on TV sets by announcing that he would be "intractable with those who cheated with French tax", it was almost 10,000 full-time equivalents that were sacrificed on the altar of austerity in Bercy. Bercy's lock would have been loosened by a single turn because of the Government's complacency. Another consequence of this accounting vision is that public services or maltreated local and regional authorities, while they are the only good of those who have nothing. For example, our communities, which have demonstrated their major role in the life of our country during the health crisis, have been thanked for their good services by what is seen as a decline in resources in the light of the new missions that are still a little more important to them. So, our hospitals – do we still have to talk about it? – are still victims of senseless budget cuts, ubiquitous groupings, or even bed closures, in the midst of a pandemic. As a result, our higher education and our research are disadvantaged by your liberal management and petty calculations, as pointed out in a recent report by the Economic Analysis Board, which shows that chronic under-investment is unrelenting. Thus, our school institution – a subject that is dear to me – continues to be stifled after knitting, from high school to the functional authority of the directors, while teachers are still among the lowest paid in the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – who are struggling to recruit AESHs, accompanying students with disabilities, because of the low attractiveness of their profession, and that the recruitment balance is zero. On the other hand, only broads, nods, soft words smeared at the predators of CAC40 and other big companies! For production taxes alone, there is an average gain of 940 euros for the TPEs, the very small enterprises, compared with 9.1 million for the large enterprises. And I hardly dare mention the kyrielle of tax niches that your majority did not have the courage to abrogate. Nearly 40 billion euros per year evaporate because of the only niche Copé – the mother-daughter system and tax integration – while the annual cost of the research tax credit amounts to 6 billion and that of the ex-CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, to 20 billion, losses that weaken our social protection. Yet these same CAC40 companies have destroyed 600,000 jobs, half of them in France. I know that the waltz of such astronomical figures is sometimes difficult to understand for the ordinary citizen. I would add, however, that, by way of comparison, the recruitment of 100,000 caregivers that we are proposing is about EUR 6 billion, and this is by integrating the catch-up of the index point. Your majority is angry to highlight supposedly encouraging results, particularly in terms of purchasing power. But what about it? Well, the reality is that Mr. Macron was the president of purchasing power... but of the wealthy! There is no need to read Humanity to affirm it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u18	You still have to read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u19	...you just have to follow the last conference of the Institute of Public Policy. It was learned that long-term measures played mainly at the top of the distribution and that, for the only reduction in income tax, there was a zero gain for almost 57% of households, but a gain of EUR 1 billion for the most affluent 1% of our citizens. So yes, just a few months from the election, Mr. Macron pretends to be playing Santa Claus, after proudly endowing his costume of Father Fouettard, with the breakdown of unemployment insurance. In the face of the price boom, here he is, like a lady bossess, distributing a few trances to her poor. After the Macron bonus, here's a covid bonus, then a boost to the beneficiaries of the APL, the personalized housing assistance – though planed at the beginning of the mandate – and finally the famous cheques of 100 euros, in the name of the tariff shield and inflation. So yes, ministerial propaganda is reinvigorating multiple plans supposedly "relaunching": MaPrimeRenov', plan "1 young, 1 solution" or plan France 2030, all of which are often only a bad compilation of investments already voted and which still remain largely insufficient. In short, it is the frog of the fable that wants to be beefed, for "every bourgeois wants to build like the great lords". Yet another fiscal and fiscal policy would have been possible. But since I sat on the Finance Committee, it has been at the same rate that our amendments are rejected, rejected, sometimes without a word. Of course, I see that La République en marche does not accept the programme of La France insoumée – and I see that. But finally, in five years of budgetary debate, after the "no matter what" of the health crisis, there are some of our proposals that could have been the subject of a real exchange. I am thinking here of our desire to smooth the tax contribution of the French through the creation of fourteen new tranches, so as not to penalise the popular classes or the middle class. I am still thinking about the re-establishment of the ISF, the removal of iniquitous niches, our plan for the construction, rehabilitation and isolation of social housing, or the investment in freight and rail transport, in order to draw an alternative solution to all-carrying. All of these measures would allow for a real recovery shock, benefiting from the multiplier effect of massive investment in the real economy, as is the case in other major countries such as China and the United States. While the fifth wave is now a reality, we have made concrete proposals to mitigate the most harmful effects of this health and social crisis: to block upstream the prices of energy and essential products; significantly increase the SMIC, since you cherish so much the value of work; Building and strengthening the autonomy of our young people, when almost half of our students are obliged to work to finance their studies or they lengthen the queues of those enrolled in food aid and the poor. However, there is no trace of these human realities in the budgetary bruises. In the face of such evidence, mentioned in expert reports and taken up in forums, I have often wondered: is it out of bad faith or because of indoctrination that you conceal this human reality, which should guide politics? He's probably a wise blend of both. Finally, I would like to testify to my first experience in the Committee on Finance. Sometimes I felt like an elephant in a porcelain store. In view of the complexity of the tax measures, in the face of experienced colleagues in this area, I felt that I was heavy and clumsy, defending our ever-present "political amendments". But sometimes too, faced with your sometimes despicable, sometimes mocking, but always technocratic answers, your silences and your stoned answers, I also felt like a porcelain in an elephant shop. The elephant is the weight of your unique thought: a thought barred with certainties, unable to devise alternative solutions, if not to sneeze about it. Your unique thought is ordoliberalism and its mantras. It is also your blind adherence to all these fadas, yet contradicted by the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u20	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u21	I conclude in two words!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u22	Your intervention is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Budget debates followed and are furiously similar. We are not subject to your doxa. This is our insubmission...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u24	[[Mrs Sabine Rubin protested]] Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u25	That's not fair, you left President Woerth another fifty-eight seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u26	Madame Rubin, you spoke for ten minutes and twenty seconds. You were able to express yourself during the prescribed time. It's pathetic to be within a second!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u27	You're the one who's about a second away!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u28	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u29	After the Senate's relatively new rejection of the bill, we have to re-read the finance bill for 2022, in a form identical to the one that was passed here a few weeks ago. It is to be feared, knowing your stubbornness, and even if hope always swells our veils, that there are therefore few surprises during our discussion. But there will also be little suspense for the vote of the Communist deputies and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. This finance bill closes five years of an economic policy that you are constantly calling for – I deliberately use this term a little bit of an old one – as we sell laundry by boasting its merits, for example by saying that it fights against "clean dirt", to quote a famous sketch. The numbers sorted on the shutter that you put forward cannot hide a much darker reality. The poverty rate still stands at almost 15 per cent, while unemployment is still very high, for example, youth unemployment at 20 per cent. Employment, on the other hand, is increasingly precarious. μ The French and French are not mistaken. They don't share your delusional enthusiasm. In a survey published in October, 58% of respondents stated that they were not satisfied with economic policy since 2017. The effect of your policies has been particularly unequal, the study published by the Institute of Public Policy in November is, in this regard, enlightening. You claim to have returned nearly 25 billion euros to the French thanks to the tax cuts. But it is clear that you have not returned them to all. Apart from the fact that such cuts deplete the State, since it could no longer afford to carry out the major public policies necessary to meet the needs, it should be recalled that taxation is also a redistribution tool that should reduce inequalities. The study carried out by the Institute is unequivocal: the poorest 5 per cent have seen their standard of living decline over the past five years as a result of the economic measures taken by the Government when, at the same time, the richest 1 per cent are the ones who have gained the best out of the game, with an increase in their standard of living of 3 per cent thanks to the gifts of the beginning of the quinquennium, or about 3,500 euros extra per year. In our country, therefore, the poor are increasingly poor and richer and richer. This observation, albeit simple, is perfectly in line with reality. The most modest 5% represent 3.35 million people in acute poverty, whose disposable income after deduction is less than 800 euros per month. Charitable associations are alerting us to the significant increase in food aid, and the departments are telling us that RSA's demands are increasing significantly. This situation, which is already unworthy, is made even more so by the special efforts you have made for other categories of the population. Of course, I am thinking of those who are at the other end of the chain and who have benefited most from your economic policy, that is, the 1% of the richest French, whose monthly income exceeds 10500 euros. There is the "whatever it costs" – in reality, there is the couvac: it costs. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left often denounces this situation because the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few is both unfair and devastating. This unequal situation is not only detrimental to social cohesion, it is not only counterproductive to the values of solidarity and cooperation that underpin our republican pact: it is also an economic and social countersense. [[Smile on the benches of the SOC and FI groups]] The policy of the first of the ropes, repeatedly praised by the majority – since in reality this year's largest budget item will be that devoted to painting, to paint everything in pink – proves to be an economic and social failure. The evaluation reports are now very clear: the abolition of the ISF and the creation of the flat tax have had no real effect on activity, investment or employment – on the other hand, on agitation and death speculation, yes! At the time of the assessment, you will be able to draw the conclusions you wish to draw and to display the overall economic indicators that you think are positive, but you will not be able to remove from the heads of the French that sentiment, shared and widely verified, that your economic policy has even more fragmented and damaged society. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] Finally, I will not dwell on the way in which this draft budget has been discussed and the last minute amendments have prevented a real discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u30	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u31	The 2022 finance bill represents a real leap forward for the French economy, for businesses and for employees. After years 2020 and 2021 affected by the health crisis, France is moving forward, with a sustained growth of 6.7% in 2021 – never seen in 60 years – and a forecast of growth of 4% for 2022. This is very good news for the recovery and for our investments. One in three employers plans to increase wages. The labour market is also returning to its pre-crisis level: the unemployment rate is 8.1%, a level never reached since 2009, and 750,000 jobs have been created. This is the result of the work that we have been doing since the beginning of the mandate, especially the "no matter what" – it is nothing like a coucac – which has helped to preserve businesses and protect employees. The draft state budget for 2022 is a continuation of previous finance bills, focusing on the reduction of household and business taxation, support for investment and innovation, and the strengthening of the purchasing power of the French. We are also continuing the deployment of the France Recovery Plan and we are undertaking the France 2030 Investment Plan. This draft budget also enshrines the young contract of engagement, which provides for an unprecedented accompaniment of at least 15 to 20 hours per week; increase in employment facilities, local missions, employment integration institutions (EPIDE), second chance schools (E2C) or production schools; the renewal of the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", which has benefited nearly 3 million young people; and the continuation of the reform of apprenticeship, which will allow us to reach this year a new record of more than 500,000 apprentices! It also includes the plan to reduce recruitment tensions for long-term job seekers, or the two-year extension of the testing of self-employment integration enterprises (EITIs), of which the Lulu service in my street is a good example. The text also guarantees the proper maintenance of public accounts, since the government deficit is expected to reach 4.8 per cent of GDP in 2022, compared with 8.4 per cent in 2021, and the Government is committed to prioritising the surplus revenue to reduce the deficit. We will increase the defence budget by 1.7 billion euros to adapt our armies to new international challenges, that of the Ministry of the Interior by 1.5 billion euros to renew the equipment of the security forces and renovate the real estate infrastructure, and that of the justice system by 700 million euros to carry out a policy of proximity and improve the public service. Note also the €1.7 billion increase in the national education budget, which has finally grown by 12% since 2017. This draft finance law also provides for the extension of the long-term partial activity, the continuation of the 25% reduction in corporate tax, and the renewal of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme for 2 billion euros, in order to succeed in the ecological transition – the budget allocated to the ministry concerned will exceed 19 billion euros. We will continue to support the most fragile through the recentralisation of the RSA for departments that wish to do so, the strengthening of the fight against violence against women and against prostitution, financed to the tune of 28 million euros, and the renewal of 190,000 emergency accommodation places, the corresponding appropriations having doubled during the quinquennium to reach 2.7 billion euros in 2022. But this draft budget is also the pass culture and the pass sport: the list does not end, but these measures are very real and their effects are concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u32	Most of all, there are pass-plates for the richest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u33	In short, it is an ambitious, serious and designed budget to ensure sustainable growth – a budget based on commitments made by the President of the Republic and the majority. I am thinking in particular of the reduction in taxes and compulsory levies, the support granted to investment, innovation, work and local authorities, but also of the measures to promote self-employment which we will be discussing next week in committee, or the proposed amendment on Article 29d, which aims to extend for one year the zoned support arrangements for territories in difficulty or faced with specific constraints, and to extend the exemption arrangements for businesses located in the priority areas of city policy (QPV), with all the coordination measures involved. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With this finance bill, the Government makes the choice of regalian and education: it presents a budget consistent with the strategic choices made since the beginning of the quinquennium, a budget of which we are proud and which the group La République en marche will vote without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u34	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u35	The last five-year finance bill amplifies and completes the Government's complete renunciation of control over public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u36	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u37	Spending rains in a staggering way just a few weeks from the presidential elections and, even more serious, our debt, yet dizzying, has become the least of your worries. However, it will have increased by almost 680 billion euros during the quinquennium and is about to cross the astronomical bar of 3000 billion euros, or 45000 euros of debt per French. In fact, the Senate did not err in rejecting this indefensible budget without going to the end of its consideration. He has done a strong political act there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u38	A weak act, rather!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u39	...which I greet and which must make you understand, Mr. Deputy Minister, that the executive has gone far too far. No, we cannot condone this spending fever and this demagogic frenzy. This government does not reform, it spends. He even spends on everything, as the election deadlines get closer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u40	It's a socialist budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u41	No, we cannot endorse this campaign budget. Since the end of the summer, we have recorded no less than forty announcements, for a total of 45 billion euros of new expenditure! But, after all, it doesn't matter what the bill is when it comes to preparing a re-election – especially when this money is spent with the checkbook of France and it is financed entirely by the debt! No, we cannot vote in favour of this draft budget, which has become the ultimate symbol of all renunciations: renunciation of the reform and rectification of the country, renunciation of the reduction of the debt, toxic for future generations, finally renunciation of the chronic insincernity of the budget, sad legacy that you have borrowed from the Netherlands years. On October 11, here, our colleague Gilles Carrez described your budget as "insinuating." Two months later, unfortunately, the facts gave him reason. The Government first tried to cover up 100 billion euros of debt by means of emission premiums to hide from the French that our real level of debt will exceed 120 per cent of GDP. You then presented a completely incomplete budget – so much, moreover, that you have since introduced 15 billion euros of new measures, all without seeking the opinion of the Council of State or carrying out an impact assessment! Finally, the Government broke all records by tabling 125 amendments to its own bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u42	What amateurism!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u43	... including an amendment voted in catini, which opens – stand by – 34 billion commitment authorisations! How dare you speak of budgetary sincerity when you reproduce today the same deplorable practices you denounced yesterday? Never would a draft budget have seemed so improvised and less respectful of parliamentary work. Unfortunately, the sad reality, which this text cannot hide, is that France has become the weak link of Europe and that the balance sheet of your quinquennium forbids you to brag. After five years of management by La République en marche, France recorded the highest level of public expenditure in Europe. After five years of management by La République en marche, France has the worst trade deficit in Europe. After five years of running by La République en marche, France is more than ever a European tax and tax champion. Finally, after five years of management by La République en marche, France is more indebted than twenty-four of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. It would be far too easy to use the crisis to justify this pitiful result: we approved the "no matter what" when it came to dealing with the consequences of the epidemic, but we denounce the EUR 100 billion drift of current expenditure, which has nothing to do with the crisis. Protecting workers was normal; That's deplorable. Finally, we regret that you have been deaf to our proposals to reduce taxes or to abolish taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u44	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u45	The only response, in the face of rising energy or fuel prices, must be the sustainable reduction of taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u46	But it's expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u47	This solution would have been much simpler and fairer than a random and absolutely untargeted distribution of a EUR 100 cheque or a DIY aimed at reintroducing what looks like a floating domestic oil product tax (IPTC). [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any event, the members of the Republican Group will not, you will understand, be able to vote in favour of this budget for the renunciation of all your great principles, this budget from the flight to ever more debts and ever less reforms, this budget which does not reduce the taxes of present generations and increases the burden of future generations, which makes us think that it is time to put our public accounts and our finances in order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u48	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u49	He wasn't in La République on the move at the start?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u50	I would like to begin my statement with a few regrets. Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, like others who have already spoken, deplore the fact that we have to look at the text that we voted on at first reading and passed on to our colleagues in the Senate, who have rejected it without any other form of trial. Of course, the majorities of the two chambers often oppose each other, especially on texts as political as the budget – especially the last of the quinquennium. Let us recognize, however, that readings in each chamber enrich the text by incorporating inputs that the elected members of the other chamber had not initially thought of. Our group is attached to bicameralism: it is intrinsically good when each of the two chambers strives to work on matter and not to get lost in vain political blows. That is how we are obliged to describe the behaviour of our colleagues on the left and on the right, who, gathered for the occasion, decided, after having examined the first part of the text, to reject it with a single stroke, to have a minute of glory. Such an attitude serves bicameralism, weakens the image of the Senate and that of politics, in the eyes of our fellow citizens. Let's get to the bottom of the debate. What have we not heard about this draft budget: it would be both too restrictive and too cowardly, too prudent and too improvisable, too electoralist and too technocratic, too deficit and too austere, or what I know: in short, it would be all and nothing! The Democrats think exactly the opposite: this budget is proportionate and necessary. It is necessary because it helps to accompany recovery and to cope with the difficulties caused by the crisis. I think, of course, of the various mechanisms that will help to mitigate the consequences of price increases, the first of which is the EUR 100 inflation premium granted to all civil servants and pensioners receiving less than EUR 2000 net per month. In a second phase, the tariff shield will be designed to mitigate the impact of increases in electricity and gas prices on wholesale markets for individuals. Of course, as the Associate Minister has announced, we will complement these elements by taking additional measures to address the deteriorating situation and rising prices that have occurred in recent weeks. This finance bill is also necessary in that it allows for the exit of the crisis, with substantial funds. Several arrangements of the France Recovery Plan, which I will not detail here and which will be deployed in 2022, will thus help to support the most fragile populations. In addition to this mechanism, which everyone here knows, the new France competence plan, announced by the Prime Minister, which we adopted on the occasion of the examination of the text at first reading. It is intended to provide training to 1.4 million people who are remote from the labour market, with priority being given to jobs in tension, in order to maximize the chances of this training leading to stable employment. Because we know all the trades and sectors that are in tension: construction, industries and, in services, catering but not only. There are no longer entrepreneurs who say they want and can work and invest more but are now limited by the difficulties in recruiting. The Skills Plan is a strong component of our response to demand and supply, as well as support for employment and work. This budget is also necessary not only to accompany the recovery in the face of the difficulties caused by the crisis but also, contrary to what is often said, to continue the reforms until the last moment as we announced. It shows this clearly, first of all with the tax component of the plan for the self-employed, to which is dedicated a bill on which the special commission will begin its work next week – I salute Jean-Paul Mattei for his investment on this subject. We want to make life easier for all entrepreneurs by better protecting them, by facilitating the transformation of businesses and, above all, by supporting their development. With this in mind, the Group of the Party of European Socialists had a number of proposals which we did not know or were able to convince you of, ladies and gentlemen; We regret it, but perhaps there will be developments. This budget also lays the foundation stone of the France 2030 plan, which resumes and amplifies the momentum of France's revival: there is therefore good continuity. Thanks to the reforms that we have undertaken since 2017, France has caught up with its delay; It is once again becoming a great innovative nation, at the cutting edge of technology for the future. Finally, let us not forget that this budget, by endorsing the reduction in household tax and the reduction in business taxes, is in keeping with all our previous budgets and all the measures we have taken since the beginning of the legislature: more than 50 billion euros will have been given back...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u51	To the richest!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u52	...to the French and to the companies, a real breakup! All the French called for a halt to the increase in taxation, and we will have been the first to do so in 30 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u53	My dear colleague, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur-general also applauds]] I will conclude in a few words: this finance bill is fair, good and adapted to the present time. Members of the Democratic Group will vote with pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u55	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u56	Our discussions on the budget for 2022 are nearing completion, and the Government's communication plans are doing well... the country, much less so. From the benches of this Chamber, I am still hallucinating in the face of the systematic mismatch between his statements and the reality that the French are suffering. I heard on Tuesday, right here, Bruno Le Maire proudly assert that his industrial winback policy was working; He even dared to state that, since the beginning of this crisis, he had not let down any company, employee or contractor. Of course, that's not true! I would point out that 284,000 jobs were abolished in our country in 2020 alone, and that the closures of industrial sites are increasing, such as PPG in Bezons or Bergams in Grigny. I think if Bruno Le Maire were to make this number of sales taps in one of the 1100 companies that underwent a social plan in 2020 – three times as many as in the ordinary year – he would not really receive the same reception as in front of the fan club that serves him as the majority. The Minister of Economy and Finance even dared to say that not only was his industrial victory working, but it was thanks to the tax cuts and the France 2030 plan. That's not true again! I would point out that the reductions in production taxes are collected by the major groups by two thirds and that no report or study, even under France Stratégie's leadership, shows that this banal supply policy would have any effect on employment, wages or investment; It would not be for nothing, on the other hand, in the explosion of dividends during this quinquennium. As for the France 2030 plan, it is pure bluff since, of the 30 billion announced, there is for the moment no additional euro compared to the average of the last ten years. At the same time, it is still unclear how many of these billions will be accounted for in tax credits or how many will be accounted for in old schemes. Thankfully, Mr Budget Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have the right of this House to feed your propaganda by making you look like a spender! Bruno Le Maire called us, again last Tuesday, to be proud of his economic policy and of the jobs she would have created, boasting that she had obtained "the highest employment rate in France in half a century". That's bullshit! I would point out that the figures in this area are totally distorted by the number of part-time jobs and precarious contracts, not to mention the total scam of self-entrepreneur status, since, by raising the ceiling of what self-entrepreneurs can earn from the beginning of this mandate, you have multiplied the number, which allows you to boast imaginary business creations, which are in fact only the accumulation of workers reduced to work at work, as in the 19th century. But the denial has no limit with this government, since Bruno Le Maire once again told us that France was doing very well, that it had even "successful economic recovery" and that growth, expected at 6%, would be the best in the whole euro area. It's not true again! I would remind you, once again, that these 6% of growth is only a mechanical rebound in line with the gravity of the 2020 crisis and that they do not erase in any way the two years of loss of wealth production, which already allow you to threaten the country with future structural reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputé, you will have to repeat your propaganda in this House every day and on all TV channels, but it will not become credible or real. The increasingly martial tone you use is also up to your lies, getting bigger and bigger! It is true that the facts are painful to admit, but they are there: in five years, your record has produced more inequalities than ever before under the Fifth Republic; The Institute of Public Policy has even shown that, throughout your quinquennium, the poorest 5% have earned nothing at best, while the richest 1% have earned on average 3500 euros. Yes, Mrs. Verdier-Jouclas, you are the champions of the pass... but of the pass-flat for the rich! You can't ignore the numbers, but you're not ashamed of them, because you're not ashamed of anything. You continue the same policy until the end, until the last cent of the budget, "to the last quarter of an hour of the mandate," as Jupiter would say. Yet there would be so much to be done, if only a little, to meet the health and social crisis and the needs of ecological bifurcation. There would be so much to do, and not to mention the revenue recoverable thanks to the tax revolution that I have already had a great deal of opportunity to present here on behalf of the unsolicited France: 120 billion euros easily obtained from our first amending finance plan in 2022, which we will put in place by taking up in particular a large part of the 50 billion that you have allocated to the richest. There would also be so much to do by drawing on the 700 billion borrowing capacities made available to the Bank of France by the European Central Bank and of which you have decided to use only less than a third, even though we would need it for a great social emergency law, a real emergency plan for our hospitals, for our schools, for our public services and for ecological bifurcation. We have never needed so much government to live up to it; Yet all we care about is your good words and your deceit. There is an urgent need to rectify these five years of catastrophic budgets, the social and environmental consequences of which will only worsen. [["Oh! » on the benches of the Dem group]] We will therefore vote against this PLF, and you can count on us to act as soon as we come to power, in a few months, under the presidency of Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u57	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u58	We are soon at the end of our budgetary marathon, which traditionally marks the autumn of Parliament. Unlike previous years, the Senate rejected the first part of the FLP and, in so doing, deprived itself of consideration of the second part. We regret it, of course, because the parliamentary shuttle is always an opportunity to enrich the finance bill with the expertise provided by senators and members of the House of Commons. So today we are looking at the text that we adopted at first reading. It is a well-balanced, quality milling that allows us to respond to current and future challenges around three pillars: exiting from the "whatever it costs", rearming of the Regalian ministries and strengthening public investment. Thus, this PLF is in line with the economic policy pursued by the Government and by the majority for more than four years, which has allowed us to reduce the tax burden on households and businesses, to restore purchasing power to our citizens and to the competitiveness of our economic operators. The "no matter what" will have been of tremendous efficiency to preserve these gains and to enable a rapid and powerful restart of our economy. This is reflected in the figures: growth is expected to reach 6.7 per cent by 2021, its highest level in more than 50 years, while unemployment has been at the lowest in more than a decade. Of course, difficulties remain, in particular because of global tensions on raw materials, particularly on energy. In this regard, the tariff shield, announced by the Government and introduced in this PLF at first reading, will limit the rise in gas and electricity prices for our citizens. This shield complements the inflation premium and the exceptional energy check voted in the second amending finance bill (PLFR) for 2021. These three devices form a comprehensive and well-targeted package to preserve the purchasing power of the French. But the evolution of the economic situation is closely linked to the evolution of the health situation, and the arrival of the new omicron variant and the current increase in contamination remind us that the health crisis is not yet behind us. It is therefore necessary to increase vigilance, to continue to apply the barrier measures and to continue the vaccination effort. Beyond crisis management, the Action Together Group welcomes the continued strengthening of the resources allocated to the Government ministries. They have been the priority of the executive and the majority for the past four years, and will still benefit from substantial increases in appropriations for 2022. The Ministry of the Interior will receive an additional €1.5 billion, an additional €1.7 billion for defence, in accordance with the military programming law, or an additional €1.7 billion for national education, while the Ministry of Justice's budget will increase by 8% for the second year in a row. Never before has a majority done so much to strengthen the sovereign missions of the State, which are indispensable prerequisites for the effectiveness of public action and the prosperity of our country. At the same time, the finance bill for 2022 is a positive investment. France relaunches will continue its rapid deployment next year, with €70 billion already to be committed by the end of the year. At the same time, the France 2030 plan will structure and finance cutting-edge sectors, making our country a leader in several technologies for the future. Finally, the parliamentary review will have already made it possible to enrich the text that has been presented to us. Our group has taken all its part in this, in the constructive logic that has always been its own. Thus, we are pleased to have included in this PLF two additional articles relating to the taxation of digital assets and to have allowed the extension of the old Denormandie tax credit as well as the innovation tax credit. In addition, we are proud to have voted with the other groups of the majority on amendments enabling the implementation of the youth employment contract, which should benefit more than 500,000 young people next year. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and Dem groups]] So it is in the same constructive spirit that we are approaching the re-reading of the 2022 Finance Bill. We are convinced that today's discussions will allow us to continue to enrich this text and, fully supporting the economic policy pursued by the Government, the group Action Together will of course vote on the draft finance law for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u59	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u60	When the parliamentary shuttle comes back empty, there's really something to worry about! Denoting the increase in the spending and electoral promises of the President of the Republic, the senators chose not to examine the PLF for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u61	They did their job!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u62	We are now in a new reading to review this text in its first reading version. It is a record of failure and we must learn from it. The UDI-I Group understands the position of the Senate which decided to proceed to this important, rare and solemn vote, because it is a budget that sacrifices future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u63	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u64	As I have done in this chamber for months, honourable senators have wanted to denounce the 100 billion additional current expenditure over the last three years, a record for fifteen years, but above all the 680 billion euros of debt accumulated under Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium. Since September, the President of the Republic has made no less than forty-two announcements, more costly than each other. When will this end? No one knows! If we take stock, it appears that the state's budget deficit, estimated at EUR 143.4 billion in the text presented in September, has deteriorated, following the first reading in the National Assembly, from EUR 11.8 billion, from EUR 143.4 billion to EUR 155.1 billion: the fault of the numerous government amendments, aimed in particular at integrating into the PLF the budgetary consequences of the France 2030 plan and the young commitment contract, budgeted alone at more than EUR 500 million. With regard to France 2030, this plan suffers from a flagrant lack of readability, which many actors regret. Some investments are not useless, far from it, but on condition that they actually benefit companies in our territories... At the moment, the signals are far from green. Moreover, after an investment plan at the beginning of the quinquennium, it is surprising that the Government is only regaining interest in the long term at the end of its mandate. But there is no magic money, and the debt is announced at nearly 3000 billion euros in 2022. In the face of the crisis of the covid-19, the state has, of course, mobilized unprecedented means to prevent any collapse of our economic and social fabric, but we must not lose sight of the fact that priority always remains the discharge of our public spending, in order to ensure that they progress less quickly than our revenues. Declining debt by 2030 remains a credible goal, provided that a favourable growth environment is created and spending efforts are intensified over time. It is only at this price that we can achieve this. The young commitment contract creates an expenditure that will only be useful if it actually achieves its objectives. As evidence of its involvement in supporting youth employment, the IDU and Independent Group has tabled two amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of this scheme. In your initial project, young people between the ages of 16 and 25 who are neither in training nor in employment and who have difficulties in entering the labour market could receive up to EUR 500 per month, without any consideration other than attendance at the training offers offered, even though several hundred thousand jobs remain to be filled. What is the point of contenting itself with a training offer for young people between the ages of 16 and 25, who have no guarantee of a job offer? Thanks to its amendments, the IDU and independent group wants to bring together training and job seekers, as it is unlikely that mass unemployment will coexist with hundreds of thousands of vacancies and employers who find it difficult to recruit. That is why we want to make the eligibility of young people's recruitment contracts conditional on the orientation of the beneficiaries towards jobs in tension in recruitment. In order to make the scheme a useful and non-electoral tool, we also support the idea that the allowance should be paid to the host companies, which could supplement it by giving it back to the young person, with the aim of turning this contract into a contract of employment. The young contract of engagement, with vague and dubious drafting, whose modalities of application, even more blurred, will be defined by decree, will apply from March 2022, which unfortunately leaves little doubt about its real objective. The future of our young people is too important a subject to make it an issue of election overbidding. We simply ask you to have the courage to make the young commitment contract efficient. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Within the IDU and independent group, we deeply regret that the Senate was unable to examine the text in substance and amend it if necessary. To make up for this lack, we chose to take up some amendments from the Centralist Union of the Senate group that we thought were relevant; However, in the face of the almost systematic cut-off of Article 40, we have confined ourselves, for this new reading, to the tabling of a few amendments, which are modest in financial terms but whose usefulness competes with urgency. Once it is not customary, we dare to hope that parliamentary initiatives will be as successful as the too many government amendments tabled at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u66	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u67	This is the last budget of the legislature, a special budget that is crucial for our future, because, at a time when the pandemic marks a worrying return, this PLF is supposed to allow us to speed up the recovery. The key question is therefore: does this budget allow France to get back on track? At the beginning of the discussion of the text, the deficit stood at EUR 143 billion, which is already worrying; At the end of the first reading, it exceeds 155 billion, or almost 12 billion euros more, whose origin lies mainly in more than 150 government amendments, tabled in the course of our debates. By rejecting the first part of the PLF, our honourable senators wanted to send you a signal. Indeed, the situation could become untenable. Mortgages are numerous: interest rate risk, external trade deficit, and the pace of global growth. In essence, it is particularly unhealthy for public debt to be used as a playground for the purely financial economy. In this context, what future do we plot? What is the sustainability of fiscal and debt balances? In 2020, France was already borrowing 1 billion a day. By 2022, the debt ratio is expected to be 114% of GDP, or EUR 2950 billion, an increase of almost 700 billion during the quinquennium. In five years, the debt of each of the 29 million French households has increased by 24,000 euros. Of course, the health crisis has made things worse. We were in favour of measures to support the economy. However, public financial governance also bears its share of responsibility. In any event, the debt trap is ever more threatening. Of course, there is positive in this budget, and some expenditure is essential. I am thinking in particular of the energy renewal component, which devotes 2 billion to the MaPrimeRenov' device. This is a real step forward because the recovery plan originally planned to spend the same amount in two years. We could no doubt have better prepared the ambitious goal of carbon neutrality of the private fleet by 2050 and made the accompanying arrangements sustainable. I would add that, in order to put France back on the path of recovery, in this and other areas, it is necessary to work hand in hand with the territories and to adapt to their specificities. Perhaps the most striking counter-example is your record 34 billion euro amendment for the France 2030 plan, designed without the help of local elected officials. This lack of dialogue with the territories is repeated in new reading – I am referring to the issue of regional equalization. In the framework of the partnership agreement with the State in 2020, the regions transmitted to the Government their proposals resulting from a unanimous agreement. You chose not to follow the letter of this agreement. This subject is closely monitored by the Libertés et territoires group. My colleague Sylvia Pinel will support an amendment that will return to the unanimous agreement of the regions. I hope, Minister Delegate, that you will listen to this essential request. And then there is Corsica, a fine example, which, because of its insularity, faces challenges of its own – I am thinking in particular of the episodes of marine pollution and the accidents that the community still does not have the means to cope with in the Corsica Canal. I am once again defending an amendment of appropriations aimed at improving matters in this area. There is also the serious problem of paying the 90 million to the Corsica Ferries company, which is likely to destabilize the finances of the Corsican community. You are preparing to take over part of the sum, as required by justice and the involvement of the State in the biased operation of the territorial continuity scheme; you are preparing to abound the PTIC – a transformation and investment plan for Corsica – in this sense. I would like to tell you on this occasion that the management of this programme will need to be improved, involving more and better the Corsican community and the communities concerned. There is also a need to build a stable maritime relations model, finally approved by the services of the European Commission. More broadly, I repeat, it will also be necessary to replace the multiple tax systems, disparate, overlapping, not devoid of perverse effects, with a genuine tax and social status, effective in development. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, we are not unaware of the difficulties of the hour, yours. They are considerable, multiple and profound, but we have a total of significant reserves on the budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u68	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u69	This finance bill is first and foremost a presidential pre-campaign budget, which confirms the many promises of the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic and his government. It allows the power in place to remove the cheque book to extinguish the fires caused by the legitimate concerns of the French, in particular on the major issue of the evolution of purchasing power strongly affected by inflation. At first reading, during the general discussion, not so long ago, my colleague Christine Pires Beaune denounced the 149 amendments then tabled by the Government: it was already a record. You didn't find any answer but to drop 220 this time! She denounced your propensity to put on the table new unconsidered spending at the last moment, like your historic amendment of 34 billion euros. Yesterday, you simply tabled a new amendment to Rule 42g, which could cost a minimum of 8 billion more. I say'may', because this amendment is neither budgeted nor evaluated: there is nothing to inform Parliament, as is unfortunately too often the case. Again, this is a new expenditure that does not take into account what the hidden puncture will cost EDF due to the extension of regulated access to historical nuclear electricity (ARENH) and which will ultimately be paid by customers who remain attached to the public energy service. Fortunately, opening up to competition should help to lower prices! In the end, it is only an additional measure which, once again, makes the little ones pay. Meanwhile, the shareholders of Total, a company that is expected to generate around 14 billion net profits this year, will be able to accumulate record gains. We have offered to involve them; You refused. Beyond these last developments, what can be said which has not already been said ten times in this too long quinquennium? This budget is a budget for the rich, which is still based on the idea that the "first of the ropes" will make money flow and that growth will come. Yes, growth starts again, but you welcome it by stifling the fact that it is a mechanical rebound: in reality, between 2019 and today, it remains three times less than that of the rest of the world. As a result, the gains in purchasing power at the top of the spectrum have resulted in a large portion of the population remaining precarious. It is pushed at the foot of the wall when inflation returns. Then you have to pull out the billion-dollar spear to avoid an episode like that of yellow vests, especially to avoid a major social movement on the eve of the elections. How long will this scheme last? No one knows. In any event, we will continue to oppose this impasse, which we consider too unfair socially.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u70	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u71	This finance bill for the year 2022 is the last budget of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, an undeclared candidate in the presidential election, but already in the campaign. Thus, we are led to debate on an insinuous budget, fortified as candidate Macron's electoral announcements take place. This project, which is still marked by the health crisis, is that of a new race for the deficit, even though it is difficult to measure the exact budgetary consequences of the fifth wave of epidemics today. The crazy race ahead of public spending is still accelerating. This expenditure will amount to 57% of GDP in 2022, which is a sad European record. This last budget for a twilight quinquennium has 35 billion euros of sometimes demagogic promises, often misdirected, and still a short-term vision. As with previous budgets, there is no solution for the many French people in the populace and middle class who struggle to make ends meet. The Government prides itself on having returned 24 billion euros to households, but it is the most affluent households that have benefited from these gains. The only indisputable growth is that which concerned the heritage of the 500 largest fortunes of France, which doubled during the quinquennium. The announced runoff did not take place: one third of the French population draws on its savings to close the end of the month. Under this legislature, there has been no real will to tackle the deep inequalities that are going through our society. This government has consistently favoured the richest of our fellow citizens. These include the introduction of the flat tax on capital income, the increase in the CSG – a widespread social contribution – for many French, the extension of the CRDS – a contribution to the repayment of social debt – and the decline of the APL, when so many young French people live in ever greater precariousness. The philosophy of your economic and fiscal policy? Injust because sweet for the richest and hard with the French most in difficulty, like your unemployment insurance reform. Youth, sacrificed by the Government's health measures, has not benefited from any ambitious policy on training or combating youth unemployment. The contract of young engagement is only an umpteenth electionist measure, which will be inaugurated on 1 March 2022, just forty days before the first round of the presidential election. That's what I mean! The modest pensioners, on the other hand, suffered the increase in the CSG at the beginning of the quinquennium and the quasi-freezing of pensions. They are also the first to suffer from the difficulties of access to the health system and the closure of community-based public services. Your sprinkling of isolated measures cannot be sufficient to provide a relevant response to the problem of purchasing power: 56% of French people believe that their purchasing power has decreased under the Macron presidency. They suffer from the explosion of energy prices and are legitimately concerned about the upsurge of inflation. Many compatriots find that the price of fuel is rising week after week and that their shopping baskets are increasingly expensive. After making the necessary choice of "whatever it takes" in the face of the health crisis, the Government is preparing to present the bill to the popular and middle classes, as well as to future generations who will have to pay for the explosion of the debt. In conclusion, this finance bill is a reflection of your multiple failures, which you are trying to mask with big blows of billions that make our public debt rise to an unprecedented level: 114% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u72	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u73	I now call the articles of the 2022 Finance Bill, in the text previously adopted by the National Assembly and rejected by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u74	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 275 and 274, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u75	These two amendments by my colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz – whose seriousness in following up the work of the Committee on Finance, as well as the understanding of the budget, cannot be called into question – simply aim to put you back on the ground, Minister Delegate. In reality, behind the announcements and the cyclical effects, you mask a structural widening of the deficit of our national budget. The two amendments therefore aim to bring the budget entries back to the reality of the structural deficit and, with regard to point 274, point out your own contradictions. Your own forecast of the deficit – which you had adopted by our assembly in the Public Finance Programming Act for 2018-2022 – will not be achieved, so it is appropriate to correct the trajectories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u77	That's an unfavorable opinion. Of course, the structural balance is deteriorating, which is one of the consequences of the crisis. This has certainly led to exceptional, very short-term expenditure, but also to structural expenditure: we have refinanced a lot of the needs of the public hospital, but also the needs you called for – I am thinking in particular of security and justice. In the aftermath of the crisis, the time comes for the restoration of priority public policies, and the consolidation of our public finances will have to be at stake in the next legislature. Irrespective of the future majority, he and the next government will need to clean up the public accounts in relation to the level of debt we have reached and of which we are collectively aware.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u78	We are considering the first part of the finance bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u79	I have before me two amendments, Nos 386 and 269, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 386.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u80	This amendment by Christine Pires Beaune aims to re-evaluate the income tax thresholds, not by 1.4%, but by 2%. We consider that the Government has undervalued inflation, since the Bank of France's forecast is 1.8 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u81	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u82	Charles de Courson felt that the indexation of the tax scale to inflation should be corrected. The current rate of 1.4% is too far from reality; Our colleague therefore proposes a re-evaluation of 2.8%, in order to give a real tax boost to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u83	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u84	Unfavorable opinion. For the amendment tabled by Mrs Rouaux, it is essentially an accounting subject, linked to the inclusion of non-tobacco or tobacco inflation, which explains the difference. For Mr Castellani's question, it is a calendar question: the level of inflation is calculated from November to November, whereas for the PLF for 2022, we have to measure inflation from January to December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u85	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 643.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u86	It is a classic subject that we have already addressed several times – but, as everyone knows, pedagogy is the art of repetition. We propose a truly progressive scale of income tax, with eleven tranches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u88	Unfavorable opinion. Our income tax is already one of the most progressive and redistributive. In addition, I would like to point out that we have lowered the rate of the first two tranches during the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u89	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 387.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u90	While the objective of Article 2 of the PLF is to neutralise the effects of inflation on income tax, the amendment aims to eliminate the indexation for taxpayers who owe the highest income tax bracket. But you're probably going to give me the same answer as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u92	No loss of purchasing power for any of the households in this PLF: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u93	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 388.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u94	We are calling for the creation of a fifth tax bracket, applicable for the years 2022 and 2023 to the 0.1% of taxpayers with the highest income.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u95	I have before me two amendments, Nos 276 and 270, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Raphaël Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u96	Deputy Minister, we want to help you get rid of your old socialist demons. It seems to remain, since you continue to think, as under François Hollande's quinquennium, that the family quotient is a social assistance, while it is a tool of natalist politics. It is therefore necessary to return to family quotient ceilings approaching those in force before 2012, in order to promote the birth rate in France. It is a real need: we cannot disconnect the subject of growth from a real natalist policy, far from the logic of social assistance that you have been maintaining for ten years now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u97	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 270.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u98	The aim is to make taxation favourable to the reception of a child in the home by amending the ceilings provided for in Article 197 of the General Tax Code, which relate to the reduction of tax resulting from the application of the family quota.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u99	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u100	Unfavorable opinion. It must be borne in mind that we are one of the countries, if not the country, whose fiscal policy is most favourable to the family. Under no circumstances is our ambition to weaken this situation. The measures voted in the PLF for 2013 have been voted, we will not come back to it – the cost would be very important for public finances. But family policy has by no means been undermined by the taxation decided by our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u101	I call Mr Raphaël Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u102	The objective of Article 3 of the PLF is to restore the scope of services eligible for the tax credit prior to the decision of the Council of State of 30 November 2020, by including in the law, in particular, the cancelled administrative comments, which had the effect of attributing certain services performed outside the taxpayer's home to the scope of the tax credit, provided that they are included in an overall offer of service. In its decision, the Council of State considers the delivery of meals at home to be a service carried out in the taxpayer's home. In the present state of the law, the services for the delivery of meals at home, the collection and delivery of linen fall by nature within the scope of the tax credit and are not covered by the administrative doctrine cancelled. There is therefore a need to put some coherence in all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u104	The opinion is unfavourable, since you extend the scope of the activities carried out to the residence, which is not the subject of Article 3 or the decision of the Council of State. In a few moments, we will come back to tele-assistance, a subject that deserves a little more legal clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u106	I will repeat what I said at first reading, and which is still true. Following the decision of the Council of State, we announced that we would secure the doctrine by means of a legislative provision; This is the purpose of Article 3. I would like to reassure users, providers and operators: Article 3 provides for a strictly constant field in relation to what was done previously, that is only security. The Government's opinion would therefore be unfavourable for all amendments to the scope of the personal services tax credit. However, the topic of tele-assistance was debated for a few weeks. In a letter, I had the opportunity to tell the various actors that the doctrine remained the same and that tele-assistance services were well included in the scope of the tax credit. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has tabled an amendment on this subject. Even if we consider that he is satisfied – since the doctrine remains unchanged and that this is in accordance with the law – his adoption, subject to the adoption of the rapporteur-general's sub-amendment, will be such as to reassure the whole of the players. I therefore repeat that the opinion is unfavourable on all the amendments which change the scope, but that it will be in favour of the amendment tabled by the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u107	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 271, 462, 515, 843, 183, 231 and 398, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 271, 462, 515 and 843 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 183, 231 and 398. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u108	The aim of this amendment is to guarantee the eligibility of tele-assistance and visioassistance services to the tax credit, whether or not they are included in a comprehensive offer including residential services, so as to return to the situation prior to the decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u109	Amendment No 462 by Christine Pires Beaune is being defended. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 515.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u110	After the Deputy Minister has spoken, we can hope that things will move forward. I would just like to point out that tele-assistance services are an essential tool for the autonomy and home care of older people. It would be a shame if a tax measure broke down everything that needed to be put in place in that area. We look forward to the amendment by the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur-general's sub-amendment, which will confirm that these services are well included. This is an important step to take, because we must not leave aside all those who need tele-assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u111	Amendments Nos 843 by Mr Nicolas Forissier and 183 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie are being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u112	Article 3 makes tele-assistance and visioassistance activities subject to a condition of overall provision of services, for inclusion in the tax credit. This activity is historically considered, and rightly so, to be carried out in the taxpayer's home, and it has never been subject to such a condition to be eligible for the tax credit. The amendment aims to preserve this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u113	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 398.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u114	This is an amendment that goes in the same direction; We have discussed this at length in committee. The aim is to ensure that there is no ambiguity about the personal services tax credit for tele-assistance benefits that are not included in a comprehensive service. We have been told that it is in this way that the text should be read, but I think that it should still be clarified so that there are no differences of interpretation and that we do not have to wait for an administrative doctrine, which will arrive at the best in six months. It is also necessary to avoid tariff increases due to the fact that operators offer a global service, which is necessarily more expensive. We want this tax credit, because keeping elderly people at home is a public policy objective; This must be done at the best price and thus avoid raising the rates for this type of benefit in order to enter a box of the tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u116	It is a request for withdrawal, if not an unfavorable opinion. As the minister has just explained, we are in favour of President Woerth's amendment, as I propose to amend it, which specifies exactly the scope, as we announced in committee. The idea is to do exactly what everyone here, I think, wants to do. Article 3 aims to secure the scheme within the framework of a comprehensive service offer, without preventing the existing right, i.e. the possibility of eligibility of visioassistance for this tax credit, without offering a comprehensive service, in the specific case of the elderly, dependent persons and persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u118	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u119	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u120	The amendment by President Woerth that you will support is the minimum. We add each time an extra layer, another complexity! From time to time, beyond the coldness of fiscal and fiscal law, attention must be paid to the reality of the situations experienced, and to the multiplication of the forms that this represents for elderly or vulnerable persons who must be provided with services at home, in physical delivery or by tele-assistance, and who do not always have with them an expert grandson to help them complete tax returns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u121	There's no connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u122	The multiplication of your criteria, which will be even more visible in your sub-amendment to President Woerth's amendment, which is very understandable, only increases the difficulty of accessing these tax benefits for vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u123	The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u124	It is a question of taking into account the discussion that we have had in committee. The aim is to return to the situation prior to the decision of the Council of State, which considered that bundled offers were needed as soon as the services were rendered outside the home and were not eligible for the tax credit. The personal assistance tax credit is an old story. This was first a tax reduction, then a tax credit only for assets and not for retirees, then a tax credit for everyone. The decision of the Conseil d'État split things according to the benefits granted inside or outside: all that falls within the scope of tele-assistance is a benefit issued outside the home and is therefore not eligible for this tax credit. The various amendments tabled were all aimed at the same thing. For older persons or persons with disabilities who need external assistance, this provision of services outside the home cannot be part of a package of services; It is impossible, since the companies providing services are not companies that offer other services – this implies that they are moving in line with the law, but in order to probably lead to offers that are not at all suitable for the elderly. In the amendment I tabled, I would point out that these are the elderly, the disabled or any person who is medically in need of this tele-assistance. They will be able to benefit from this service outside a range of services and will be able to benefit from it as a benefit granted outside of Canada but eligible for the tax reduction. The minister explained that this was what the Government wanted, but we considered it better to write it in order to avoid a different interpretation, if any, to the detriment of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u125	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 944 to Amendment No. 501.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u126	It is a sub-amendment of precision: for the parallelism of forms, a reference must be made identical to that made in Article 3 for the criterion of eligibility, apart from the overall offer of services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u128	Opinion in favour of the sub-amendment and the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u129	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u130	It's really a sub-amendment to say, "You can't write! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u131	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u132	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] When we compare what you refer to and what is already in the amendment, it says exactly the same thing. We have alerted you, President Woerth has done a lot of work on the subject, it is useful services in everyday life that allow, let's say, a saving of public spending, because they are often people who live at home for a long time and who, if they could not benefit from these tele-assistance services, would need to be accommodated in much heavier structures, with significant day costs. From time to time, accept that good ideas are not just from your side! I thought it was on this that you were elected, but you must always remind us that you are the only ones who know how to write. It's getting boring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u133	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u134	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u135	I think this is a good solution, and the amendment meets our expectations. It is also a confirmation of what had been said in committee. We will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u136	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u137	We are in our role, we are on our way. Amendments had already been tabled at first reading, we had an answer on the substance. This new reading makes it possible to agree on a trans-partisan political position, and we are drafting it. It's very good and you are, Mr. Schellenberger, completely next to the plate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u138	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u139	[[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger exclaimed]] Either you didn't read or you didn't understand. This is called a sub-amendment of drafting precision. I know you don't often attend debates on the PLF, but you'll see, there will be many more. [[Mr. Alexandre Holroyd applauds]] It is also not a question of political paternity, it is only a question of ensuring that the law is applicable. You will look at this quietly when you have time and you will see that it is President Woerth's amendment that is specified and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u140	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u141	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] There's no reason to argue. We have done good collective work, which is exactly what we wanted. The objective has been achieved, we can congratulate those who will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u143	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 385.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u144	This is to change all personal services tax credits to make a difference between the child care tax credit and the secondary home care tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u145	Mr Charles de Courson's amendment No. 273 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u146	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 666.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u147	It's a transfer in the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u148	Amendments Nos 670 and 671 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u149	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 717.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u150	This is a transfer in the first part, with the corresponding change of date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u151	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 830 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u152	It takes up the amendment adopted at first reading concerning the tax reorganisations of civil agricultural companies. It aims to make the amendment operational, even if it slightly reduces the base, which will still affect more than 99% of farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u153	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 707.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u154	It's a pawnshop.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u155	The committee's amendment No 872 is to be harmonised.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u156	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 435.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u157	This amendment aims to advance the much-needed increase in support for organic farming in line with the Green Deal target of 25% of agricultural land use (AAU) in organic farming by 2030. The development of this agriculture needs to be speeded up. Every year counts for the development of organic farming. Progress in implementing this measure would be a strong signal for agroecology and the 19700 farmers affected by this tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u159	Unfavorable. Moving forward with the coming into force date would create an undesirable bounty effect and we therefore maintain 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u160	Amendment No 514 by Mr Michel Zumkeller is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u161	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, in support of Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u162	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of my colleague Véronique Louwagie, is important because it aims to take account of the consequences of the health crisis in terms of corporate divestitures. Article 5 temporarily relaxes the divestiture period allowing for a total exemption from the surplus value of an individual business or shares of a partnership covered by the IR by increasing the period between retirement and the divestiture from twenty-four to thirty-six months. This measure is intended to apply to contractors who claimed their pension rights between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2021. In view of the challenge of corporate transfers and their complexity – they are not, unfortunately or fortunately, limited to the period of the health crisis alone, particularly for individual companies – the amendment proposes to extend the period for granting exemption from divestiture to 36 months for any manager claiming retirement rights beyond 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u164	This amendment would distort the purpose of the provision in question, which is to encourage the creation of pension capital. While it may be possible to consider increasing the time limit for exemption from surplus value of transfer, this is not the meaning of Article 5. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u165	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 827.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u166	This amendment, which I have already defended at first reading, concerns Article 238d of the General Tax Code. Article 5 marks a real step forward, since it allows an exemption from taxation of capital gains in the event of the transmission of an individual undertaking with a value of less than EUR 500000, but its wording is less satisfactory than that of the original text, which excluded stocks from the calculation of the exemption ceiling by referring to the transfer rights applicable in the case of the transfer of commercial funds, i.e. Articles 719, 720 and 724 of the General Tax Code. It therefore seems to me that Article 5 creates legal uncertainty. What will be the value of the company taken into account when it is sold? It is desirable that stocks and circulating assets should be formally excluded from the calculation of the exemption ceiling. This clarification would allow account to be taken of the true value of the enterprise, apart from liquid elements of the assets circulating. I would add that there will be a need for a tax clarification in the bill for independent professional activity on the transformation of a limited-liability individual company into a company. It would be useful for Article 238d of the General Tax Code to also apply in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u168	You are right to draw our attention to the fact that stocks are involved in the valuation of the company, Mr Mattei, but in fact, do they have an impact on surplus value?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u169	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u170	In theory, no, since they are recorded in taxable income year after year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u171	The question is the threshold!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u172	The new wording of Article 238d of the General Tax Code should therefore not be problematic. Perhaps, on the other hand, the doctrine should be clarified. In any event, I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u174	My opinion is unchanged from the first reading and remains unfavourable. As my advisers have had the opportunity to tell Mr Mattei, however, we will ensure that the doctrine, notably through the Official Bulletin of Public Finance (BOFIP), guarantees, in practice, the proper application of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u175	Amendment No 283 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u176	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 45, 279 and 278, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 45 and 279 are identical. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendments Nos 45 and 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u177	Amendments Nos 45 and 279 by my colleagues Véronique Louwagie and Marie-Christine Dalloz aim to extend the capital gains allowance scheme provided for in Article 5 by an additional three years in order to give company managers greater visibility. The divestiture of a company requires considerable preparation and implementation time. In line with the previous extension, it is proposed to extend the scheme for five years, not two, as provided for in Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u178	Amendment No 278 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u179	Article 5 extends the device until 2024, which I think is sufficient. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u181	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u182	Amendment No 679 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u183	Amendment No 360 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u184	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 873, which seeks to delete Rule 5b.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u185	It deletes section 5 ter in order to transfer it to the second part of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u186	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 874.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u187	We have guaranteed, in all cases, the fiscal neutrality of the operations for the cantonment of illiquid assets of a collective investment undertaking (OPC). This amendment is intended to remedy a lack of coordination of texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u188	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 875, which is intended to delete Article 5d.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u189	This amendment removes section 5d in order to transfer it to the second part of the finance bill for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u190	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 49 and 280. Amendment No 49 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u191	Section 6 provides, on a temporary basis, for the possibility of admitting the accounting depreciation of commercial funds as a tax deduction. This option would be available for funds acquired between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2023. The amendment proposes to extend this possibility to the accounting depreciation of liberal funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u192	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u193	Liberal funds are not defined in law, but only in a jurisprudential manner. The review of the self-employment bill will give us the opportunity to address this issue, which is not a tax law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u195	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u196	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u197	You can give me PLF classes, but I don't need a law class! The definition of liberal funds exists from a jurisprudential point of view and can be fully used in law. Your argument is legally incorrect, rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u198	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u199	In its plan for self-employed persons, the Government authorizes, on an exceptional basis, the tax deduction from the accounting depreciation of commercial funds. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that this measure is sustained.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u201	At first reading, we have already extended the measure for two years, until 2025. I propose that we stay there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u202	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 584 by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u203	It is intended to extend the deadline for the submission of the report to Parliament to a date that will allow the tax administration to measure the first effects of the provisions of section 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u204	Amendment No 676 corrected by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u205	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 860 by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u206	It aims to restore the initial drafting of the extension of the scope of the fuel system for ships and vessels carrying goods or passengers. We propose to return to the first version of the text, before it is amended at first reading by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u208	At first reading, against the Government's opinion, the National Assembly adopted the amendments of Christine Pires Beaune, Jean-Marc Zulesi and Said Ahamada to Article 8. These amendments dealt with an issue which we have been discussing at length since then in committee and which needs to be examined in a comprehensive manner. Because we have increased the rate of over-amortization for auxiliary vellic propulsion and because the measures adopted at first reading raise operational difficulties, I am in favour of the Government's amendment and the reinstatement of the original text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u209	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 946, 876, 282, 366, 375 and 829, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 876, 282, 366, 375 and 829 are identical. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 946 by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u210	I leave it to the authors of the identical amendments to this joint debate to present them. The Government has tabled Amendment No. 946 on a simple procedural issue, so that they can file their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u211	I would point out that the Government's amendment is not identical to the other amendments... The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 876 by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u212	I suggest Mrs. Sage defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u213	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 282.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u214	It proposes to grant auxiliary vellic propulsion an over-amortization rate of 105 %, similar to that provided for the use of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The committee discussed this issue at length and adopted the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u215	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 366.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u216	It aims to promote auxiliary velic propulsion. At first reading, we adopted a green depreciation in favour of decarbonised equipment. This amendment increases the aid originally planned. I thank the Government for listening, but also the rapporteur-general and all our colleagues who participated in the committee's work on this subject, including Jimmy Pahun, Sophie Panonacle and Michel Castellani. The Government's amendment No. 946 is not the same as our amendments, but we are in favour of it because it goes even further. Through its adoption, we can speed up the greening of our fleet and we thank you, Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u217	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u218	Like Maina Sage and Jimmy Pahun, my colleague Sophie Panonacle and I want the equipment of ships using auxiliary vellum propulsion to receive a 105% depreciation rate, compared to only 20% today. There is an urgent need to encourage the reduction of the energy needs of ships to decarbonize our modes of transport. The application of a consistent and incentive over-amortization rate will make the system applicable and give visibility to the industry, motorists and equipment manufacturers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u219	Amendment No 829 by Mr Jimmy Pahun is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u220	Positive opinion on the Government's amendment, the adoption of which will bring down the following identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u221	What is the Government's opinion on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u222	Allow me a little correction, Madam President. As Mrs Sage has pointed out, the Government's amendment No. 946 is not identical to the following amendments. It goes a little further and provides for coordination measures to make the scheme fully operational. I therefore call on the House to support it: it will bring down others, but it will satisfy them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u223	Amendment No 403 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u224	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 855.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u225	This is an amendment calling for French and European equipment manufacturers and shipyards. I propose that all green depreciation rates for shipbuilding and decarbonized propulsion equipment be increased by five percentage points when contracts for the acquisition of such equipment or for the construction of ships are concluded for the benefit of equipment manufacturers or yards considered to be economic operators of Member States of the European Union. This amendment covers the entire European market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u227	The depreciation rates provided for in Article 8 are already significant and we have just noted that of auxiliary vellic propulsion. I would also point out that we are subject to European state aid rules. Your amendment would put us at risk of litigation with the Commission. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u229	Disadvantaged for the same reasons, unless the amendment is withdrawn. The Government agrees with the rapporteur-general's arguments and I believe that we have taken a step forward in adopting the previous amendments. A further increase in State aid could pose difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u230	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u231	If you take the time to read what I am proposing, you will realize that it is a matter of advantage to the European market, not the only French market. This is an opportunity for me to ask you a question: is it possible, through state aid, to give priority to the European market, while the French Presidency of the European Union will begin? You know as I do that today shipowners can use this damping device and benefit from it elsewhere than in Europe – they can buy or have boats built outside of European shipyards. I do not think this is in contradiction with Community rules, but I would like to know whether it is possible to favour the European market over the international market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u232	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 708.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u233	It aims to raise the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u234	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 720 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u235	It aims to strengthen the current state of the law relating to parking conditions in a Corsican port, but also to ensure the sustainability of the resources allocated to the budgets of the eco-organisation responsible for the management of waste from recreational vessels. Lastly, he said that the register of francized ships would be maintained by the administration designated by the Ministry of the Sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u237	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u238	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u239	What about the freedom of the Corsican community to set rates in this context? The amendment is not legible in this respect. Does that mean that this freedom, as provided for in the current statutes, will be put to an end?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u240	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u241	The adoption of the amendment will have no consequences in this respect: the current arrangements for setting the rates will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u242	Amendment No 404 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u243	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 438, which deletes Rule 8b.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u244	It is intended to remove the reduction of the domestic tax rate on final electricity consumption for aircraft that would supply electricity on the ground. It seems to us that the least-so-called systematic tax is not a good public policy, especially with regard to ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u245	The Government's amendment No. 577 is drafting. It is the subject of a sub-amendment. The rapporteur-general's sub-amendment No 900 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u246	The Government's amendment No. 576 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u247	I have before me two amendments, Nos 916 and 877, which can be discussed jointly. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 916.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u248	It allows account to be taken of the specific nature of the transactions which led to the taxation of capital gains in relation to the VAT system. We therefore propose to decorate the two schemes and to rewrite the articles concerning the system of tax representation for capital gains and real estate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u249	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 877.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u250	I am in favour of the Government's amendment. Its wording is a little different from ours, but it suits us quite well. We therefore withdraw the amendment adopted in committee on my initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u251	Amendments Nos 407, 406 and 405 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u252	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 71, 165, 285 and 516. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u253	It has no budgetary impact; We can therefore discuss the substance of it. It plans to take a little more account of the cash flow difficulties experienced by a number of TPEs and SMEs as a result of the date on which VAT is payable. Many support measures have already been taken in this area in the past: for example, the deadline for payment of the invoice has been set at the thirtieth day to help companies manage their cash flow. However, there remains a difficulty arising from a judgment of the Administrative Court of Appeal of Nantes in May 2021: this judgment made VAT payable as soon as the first deposit was paid, whereas in reality, for most companies, the receipt is made on or after the date of the invoice. The amendment therefore proposes to mobilise European law, which has not been formally transcribed in French law on this point, in order to allow VAT to be payable when the invoice is issued or at the latest on the date of the operative event, in accordance with the provisions of Community law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u254	Amendment No 165 by Mrs Lise Magnier is being defended. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u255	It is identical to the one just defended. Mr de Courson was the first signatory and proposed amending the existing regime so that VAT would be payable at the time of the issuance of the invoices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u256	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u257	Mine is the same, too, but I would like to extend what Mr Schellenberger has said. In the rule of law, cash flow difficulties could arise, especially as we are at a time when the supply of raw materials is complicated – the delays between the payment of the deposit and the realization of the order may increase further. It may be appropriate, at least in these difficult times, to take this into account and avoid penalizing the cash flow of certain sectors of activity that are particularly affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u259	It is true that the problem raised by the amendments is not budgetary: it is legal. Their adoption would pose a real problem of compliance with Community law, and in particular with Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax, known as the VAT Directive. However, you point to a subject that is extremely important for our SMEs, especially in the aftermath of the crisis: the issue of cash flow. But it seems that the fragility created can be offset, in the context of this article, by the fact that the companies we are talking about will be able to deduct VAT from the payments made to suppliers. So I think the impact on their cash flow can be neutralized. In addition, in the event of difficulties related to the application of the measures in the article, there are financing tools to cover the BFR – working capital requirement. It is therefore impossible to adopt your amendments for reasons related to compliance with Community law. I am also not convinced that the cash flow effects are so important that what you are saying, in particular through the possibility of deducting VAT from advance payments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u261	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u262	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u263	Your reasoning is certainly correct, Mr rapporteur-general, but it is probably not exhaustive. Yes, when you charge VAT, you have the right to deduct the amount to be paid. But in some situations, such an approach can be complicated. Indeed, the fact that a court decision had been made on the matter showed that in fact the problem had arisen. The amendment is not aimed at extracting itself from Community law: it proposes to transcribe provisions from it that had not been so far. It is in full conformity with our Community law and has been defended from various benches in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u264	Amendments Nos 408, 409 and 410 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u265	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 878 and 590. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 878.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u266	It aims to extend the application of a reduced VAT rate of 5.5% for equipment for protection against covid-19 for one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u267	Amendment No 590 by Mrs Sylvia Pinel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u268	Amendment No 411 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u269	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 879 and 286. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 879.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u270	I'm gonna let Mrs. Pinel introduce hers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u271	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u272	We have already discussed this at first reading. It aims to improve the VAT system relating to the acquisition and improvement of social rental housing. It is a continuation of the amendment voted on at first reading by making the scheme more operational; Thus, it would also apply where the improvement work to be carried out on an old building, with a view to its conversion into social housing, is carried out not by the acquiring body, but by the seller. I had the opportunity to discuss this with the rapporteur-general and stressed that, despite the adoption at first reading of the amendment referred to above, there were still situations that were not covered, which posed a number of difficulties; Social donors, including the USH – Social Union for Housing – told us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u274	Mrs Pinel has very well summarized the debate we have had in committee on this subject. I still have some doubts about the measurement encryption, but we'll see how it works. I therefore give a favourable opinion; We will have the opportunity to discuss this again when we consider Amendment No 828 by François Pupponi, which comes right after.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u276	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u277	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 828.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u278	It goes in the same direction as those just adopted. It aims to clarify the types of work that would be eligible for 5,5 % VAT, and in particular to cover the case where a building would be returned almost to the new state. I hear the position of the rapporteur-general; The measure will have to be quantified, but it is clear that it is a matter of improving the renovation of housing and building social housing by carrying out acquisition-improvement operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u280	I am convinced by what François Pupponi said: in the interests of consistency, favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u282	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u283	Amendment No 412 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u284	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 899.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u285	It aims to include the measure to relax the social mix clause applicable to reduced VAT rates in the first part of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u286	Amendment No 51 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u287	Amendment No 823 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u288	Amendment No 444 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u289	Amendment No 819 by the rapporteur-general is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u290	Amendment No 685 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u291	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 880.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u292	This is an amendment by Mrs Petel, which we adopted in the Committee on Finance, and which proposes that at the time of the transfer of securities, the tax advantage granted "at entry" be removed from 2022 in order to calculate the taxable surplus value of solidary land. This mechanism, which was based on the IR-SME – income tax reduction for small and medium-sized enterprises – would therefore no longer be applied to solidary land.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u293	I have before me three amendments, Nos 289, 389 and 265, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 289 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz and 389 by Mr Joël Aviragnet, identical, are defended. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u294	This is a simple transfer from the DGF to the Natura 2000 biodiversity allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u296	Opinion against Amendments Nos 289 and 389 and in favour of Amendment No 265.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u297	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 54 and 390. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, in support of Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u298	It is intended to modify the regional adjustment variables. The DCRTP – compensation for the reform of the business tax – and the DTCE – allocation for the transfer of exemption compensation – were created by the 2010 reform of the business tax; Since then, they have continued to decline, although they have been designed as frozen. A total of EUR 182 million and EUR 83 million were allocated from these allocations to finance measures which do not concern the regions. In 2022, it is still planned to decrease their amount. The new thing is that the regions are the only ones to see their allocations decline, i.e. they are the only territorial authorities to contribute to the national budget. In 2021, the Court of Auditors, in its report on local public finances, stated: "Overall, the operating section of the regions thus appears to be the most affected by the health crisis, whereas this category of communities was not the subject of specific support measures in 2020, unlike municipalities, groupings and departments. » The regions, without receiving aid, have directly contributed to the management of the crisis; They will also be at the heart of the recovery, since it is through them that structural investment projects pass through. It is therefore completely absurd to draw up an additional EUR 50 million this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u299	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 390.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u300	Mr Schellenberger has defended the amendment very well. For having mentioned the subject several times in the Committee on Finance and in the Chamber, I have the feeling of systematic opposition between the State and the regions. As a regional elected representative, I can testify to the fact that the regions are facing real financial difficulties, which is all the more regrettable because they have essential skills in areas to be reformed, such as transport. This is a real source of concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u302	Colleagues, do you remember the level of minorities when we arrived in 2017? It was EUR 539 million, compared with EUR 50 million proposed in this text. It's ten times more. It must be said by intellectual honesty: the level of minorities has never been so low, and it has been declining continuously since the beginning of the legislature. Furthermore, Mr Schellenberger, it is wrong to say that the regions were not helped during the crisis, since their revenues were preserved. I would point out that by replacing the regional CVAE – contributions on the value added of companies – with a fraction of VAT, we have avoided them a white year, and the expected rebound of VAT due to the strong growth will make it possible to offset the expenditure they made during the crisis by an increase in revenue. You are right to say that the regions have made additional expenditure to ensure the necessary protection of our citizens; However, not only have we preserved their recipes, but we have even increased them. The regions are the regions whose revenues have been best preserved and which will have the strongest momentum. It is wrong to say that we abandoned the regional councils during the crisis, and the article demonstrates this by not touching the level of minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u304	Indeed, the reduction of these adjustment variables, as they are called, was ten times higher in 2017, and fourteen times higher in 2016. These 50 million represent their lowest historical level. I would add to the rapporteur-general's arguments that the revenue of the regions has been stifled: for example, the law provides that in 2022 the increase in VAT will result in an increase in the revenue of the regions by almost 900 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u305	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u306	I hear that we can disagree, Mr rapporteur-general. However, one criterion is missing for your intellectual honesty: that of chronology. Your reasoning is completely disconnected from the meaning in which the events took place. First of all, you say that the reduction is less important than in 2017; Forgive me for reminding you, but your majority is largely from those who were in business on that date. I fully agree with you that the way in which local and regional authorities have been dealt with under François Hollande is scandalous, but I was probably more opposed to it than the minister responsible for public accounts. Secondly, the argument of dynamic VAT is the one that you used at the time of the reform, well before the crisis. Do not use it now to justify taking a bit of it to the regions! It's too easy to say to them: "Slim, the recipes are dynamic, you have to plan them. Yet this is your logic. I was fundamentally opposed to the reform of the regions and I continue to think that it was bad; It is always the case that the regions have managed to create financial room for manoeuvre. That was the only aim of the reform. And now you tell them, "That's good, you've cleared some room for manoeuvre: we'll take them from you. We're walking on our heads!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u307	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u308	I did not intend to speak, but I would like to add a few points to what the rapporteur-general and the minister-delegate have just said. First of all, it seems to me that we should not look at the past: no matter who belonged to which group in 2017. The question before us today is twofold. First, the choice to reduce the adjustment variables was made after an analysis showing that the regions were the only communities that could easily withstand this fiscal drain. Departments could not be punctured as they are every year; the municipalities, let's not talk about it, because they were there during the crisis. The choice was not made against the regions, but because they were most able to bear the EUR 50 million revenue reduction. This mechanism has been in existence for 20 years. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei applauds]] Secondly, the tax reform has consolidated the revenue of the regions, as they have managed to create greater room for manoeuvre. This does not conflict with the resumption of certain financial resources; On the contrary, this consolidation shows that the regions are a stage of the future. That is what we must remember.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u309	I have before me three amendments, Nos 293, 391 and 66, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 293 and 391 are identical. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u310	It also aims to preserve the resources of the regions, which were significantly affected by the health crisis, by returning to the EUR 50 million reduction in the DCRTP and the DTCE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u311	Amendments Nos 391 by Mrs Christine Pires Beaune and 66 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u312	Unfavorable opinion, with the same arguments as on previous amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u314	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u315	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 661.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u316	The adjustment of the fractions of the ICTPE allocated to the regions is always in a protective sense for them. This is a EUR 163 million payment to the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u318	The amendment combines several subjects, making the amounts at stake difficult to read. Could you tell us whether these compensations are going up or down and what the effects will be?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u319	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u320	This is an upward trend of EUR 163 million in total, which takes account of definitive compensation. We are talking here about the management of the roads and staff of the European Community of Alsace, the transfer to the regions of the accounting function resulting from the management of the European structural and investment funds, or of certain burdens related to trainees in vocational training and health training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u321	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 586.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u322	It aims to clarify the criteria on the basis of which departments may be allowed to experiment with the recentralisation of the RSA and its timing. This is the measure presented in general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u324	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u325	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u326	All the amendments that we have tabled on this article have been declared inadmissible, and that is a shame, because here we have a perfect illustration of your contradictions: you announce that you want to recentralise the RSA, but this leads to the capture of the territorial dynamics of the departments. All the revenue from the transfer fees is for you! There is double standards. When you entrust jurisdiction to the local authorities, the financial compensation is assessed once and for all on the basis of an average established over the last three or five years, be it operating expenditure or investment expenditure; This is a commonly accepted, though questionable, rule, because transfers of equipment often require a huge investment catch-up. On the other hand, when you regain jurisdiction, you reserve the right to capture, in the future, the entire fiscal dynamic of the territory. It is simply unbearable, and it removes any interest in the recentralization of the RSA that some departments wanted – I say "some". You have managed to imagine a particularly devious equalisation mechanism whereby departments that have not decided to recentralise the RSA will be forced to contribute to the financing of the RSA of the departments in which it has been recentralised. You thus allow some departments to impose on others an unacceptable plankage of their fiscal dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u327	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 266 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u328	This is an adjustment of the DGF, in particular a correction of the right of compensation of the Department of La Réunion in respect of the recentralisation of the RSA, for an additional 16.4 million. This is the mirror amendment to the increase in support for municipalities for the protection of biodiversity mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u329	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 305, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u330	The aim of Mr Pancher's amendment is to remove the requirement of financial potential, so that the "elected local" allocation is paid to all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u331	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 306 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u332	Following numerous discussions, it aims to ensure that the State provides special assistance to the Corsican community in the Corsica Ferries case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u334	Request for withdrawal. Mr Castellani, we will have the opportunity to come back to this issue in the second part, when we refer to the appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u336	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u337	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u338	We take note of the rapporteur's comments. We'll discuss this case a little later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u339	I have before me three amendments, Nos 723, 635 and 724, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendments Nos 723 and 724.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u340	I withdraw them for the sake of the discussion that we will have earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u341	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 635.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u342	I withdraw it, pending clarification during the consideration of article 20, which will give us an opportunity to question the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u343	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 307 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u344	Sylvain Brial's amendment aims to mobilise €5 million to provide a concrete response to the staff strike linked to the establishment of a territorial civil service (FPT) in the Wallis and Futuna Islands. The aim is to put an end to the difference in treatment between officials of the State civil service and officials of the territorial civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u346	I understand the stakes for Wallis and Futuna, but I do not think the answer is a revenue levy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u347	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 589.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u348	This is an amendment relating to the Authority for Social Relations of Employment Platforms (ARPE).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u350	I am in favour of this EUR 2 million cap on the tax allocated to ARPE.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u351	Amendment No 687 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u352	Amendment No. 609, as corrected by the Government, is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u353	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 881.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u354	Its aim is to move in the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u355	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u356	It aims to abolish Article 16, which will make the audiovisual public service lose 17.7 million euros, after a reduction of 70 million last year and 85 million in 2019, a total of 190 million since 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u357	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u358	This is in line with the trajectory signed with France Télévisions. Moreover, since the crisis, France Télévisions has benefited from an exceptional budgetary increase and the cancellation of the abolition of France 4. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u359	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 267.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u360	It aims to remove collateral from the Fourth Amending Finance Act (PLFR) for 2020 and the Finance Act for 2021 for coordination purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u361	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 451.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u362	The aim of this appeal amendment is to delete Article 17, which concerns financial relations between the State and social security. We denounce the formalisation of financial transfers between the State and social security in that it violates the principle of its autonomy and thus endangers the whole of our social protection model. The Government has exacerbated this trend in recent years by offsetting contribution exemptions, which is highly questionable. Health insurance continues to be weakened by reductions in contributions imposed by the Government. Social security funding is increasingly linked to resource allocations and less and less to stable resources. In addition, there is a tendency to increase the social security burden on a voluntary basis. Thus, since 2020, by the sole will of the Government and without any parliamentary approval, more than 41 billion euros have been charged to health insurance and UNEDIC, which exacerbates the imbalance in social finances and allows you to justify various measures relating to unemployment insurance or pensions, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u363	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u364	This is a debate that we have on a recurring basis and that does not, strictly speaking, concern this text. Rather, it is a substantive debate that we must have on the compensation between the State and social security: what taxes and what compulsory levies must they finance? You'd be surprised if I thought about the substance, Mrs. Rubin. Contrary to what you think, I am not far from sharing your opinion on the need to rethink social security revenues, with more contributions and less taxes. This is probably a debate we will have in the coming months. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u365	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 606.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u366	It aims to adapt the part of VAT allocated to social security to take account of the compensation to the pension fund for professional civil aviation personnel (CRPNPAC) of the general reductions extended to aircrew, as well as some amendments made by the first amending finance law for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u368	Favourable opinion, but I would need, Mr.Minister Delegate, to understand these general reliefs for aircrew. I don't remember when this was decided, or how. Since this is compensation, I would like to understand in what terms these general reliefs have been decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u369	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u370	These are the amendments made by the first amending finance law for 2021, with an update of the revenue forecasts to take account, precisely, of the fact that the reference point of the transfer in 2022 must be reviewed by – 0.01 point, in coherence between the financial laws. I am aware that this is particularly obscure, but it is a matter of coordination and a consequence of the votes that have been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u371	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 268.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u372	Its purpose is to reduce the amount of the revenue levy to the European Union by EUR 41 million, to take account of the agreements reached on 15 November last in the Community framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u373	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u374	Its purpose is to move in the first part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u375	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 951.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u376	This is the balance item. The amendment has three purposes: it notes the revenue forecast for 2022 of EUR 1.9 billion, in line with the update of the macroeconomic scenario; it reflects in the balance table the impact of the Assembly's votes during the discussion of the first part of the PLF for 2022, with a deterioration of the State's revenue of around 100 million; It raises the level of State expenditure by $300 million from the general budget and $200 million from the special accounts, anticipating the Government's amendments in the second part. State resources are improving by 1.9 billion, to take into account the upward revision of the macroeconomic assumptions of the PLF and several new information. At the beginning of the review, we announced our willingness to change macroeconomic assumptions. In accordance with article 16 of the Organic Law of 2012, we have referred these new assumptions to the High Council for Public Finance. He delivered an opinion on 3 November last. We have been able to update the introductory article in the National Assembly, but not in State A, for procedural reasons; So we do it at this moment. The impact of the revised assumptions on revenues and the balance was presented during the first reading of the Senate. The latter having rejected the PLF, the updating is necessary for a new reading in the Assembly. Gross tax revenues are increased by 1 billion, including 500 million corporate taxes and 1.1 billion VAT. This increase is partially offset, to the tune of 600 million, by a downward discount of other internal consumption taxes and by a discount of the rate of the tax on the result of railway undertakings. Non-tax revenues are increased by 900 million, to take into account new information: the increase in revenue for the proceeds of the State shareholdings is 600 million and the carry-over of the repayment of overpayments by Île-de-France Mobilitys (IDFM), originally planned for 2021, is 300 million. The result of the vote on the first part of the PLF was to degrade revenue by 100 million. Domestic tax revenues on energy consumption are reduced by $200 million, as a result of the adjustment of the amounts of the community right of compensation for the transfer of skills for the ICTPE. VAT revenues are increased by 20 million to take account of the update of the VAT portion allocated to social security, in line with the second amending finance law for 2021. The revenue levies for the benefit of the communities are increased by 13 million, to take account of the amendments adopted; the European Union is reduced by 41 million, to take account of the amendment which has just been adopted. Finally, this amendment raises the general budget expenditure ceiling of 300 million and the special accounts ceiling of 200 million to anticipate the second part discussions. For the general budget, this increase corresponds to the creation of a public guarantee fund for travel and subsistence operators for 150 million, and a constant reallocation of funds from the recovery plan to finance the extension until June 2022 of the premiums for the recruitment of an apprentice to the tune of 100 million. In addition, as part of the State Procurement Plan launched at the Interdepartmental Committee on Public Transformation in June 2019, a first round of savings is planned for 2022, amounting to 55 million. With regard to special accounts, it is planned to increase public support to airports by 150 million. In conclusion, the State's balance would fall by 900 million compared to the text adopted at first reading in the Assembly and would now amount to less than 153.8 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u378	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u379	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u380	I would like to say a word, since as often we discover this at the last minute. It is therefore difficult to form an in-depth opinion. I note that the government deficit is down by about 1 billion; This is a good thing, if the energy measures do not have a financial consequence. We do not know what your wish to apply to electricity what you are doing for gas. You left an expenditure of about 5 billion for electricity and 1 billion and a few billion for gas, or 6 or 7 billion. If tariffs were to move, we would be around 12 billion. I understand that you anticipate that they will move, as you give yourself every means to respond to this increase. The increase in electricity tariffs would have to be assessed, and the impact on the balance sheet and, more broadly, on the government balance would be discussed in the National Assembly. This is not the case: you open up opportunities without drawing the financial consequences. I can understand that, but the House is entitled to know them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u381	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u382	If the increase in costs were to exceed our forecasts, the Government would propose to Parliament that tariffs be blocked by failing to implement the recommendations of the Energy Regulatory Commission. Of course we do not hope, but price volatility is such that we prefer to have the necessary tools. The cost of the device is difficult to estimate, since we do not know if we will have to use it. On the other hand, such a situation would lead to savings due to changes in other government spending, such as the mechanically reduced contribution to the public electricity service (PSEC). For these reasons of volatility, both the revenue and the expenditure generated by the possible application of the device that we propose to you, it is impossible to encrypt; We have agreed on a cost estimate of $5.9 billion, which is already very significant. So this is the sum retained in the equilibrium article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u383	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u384	I understand your position: you're not sure of anything, so you're giving yourself the tools you need to see coming. However, you must at least make a commitment to inform national representation. It must first be kept informed of the entry into force of the mechanism. You will tell me that we will learn from the newspapers, who will inform that the price of electricity has exceeded the estimate, but it would be good if we had official information, so that the Committee on Finance can debate the financial implications. They can be considerable: we have calculated that if the price increase is increased from 14 % to 25 %, the cost of the measure would be around 12 billion euros, or 4 or 5 billion more than the estimated 6.7 billion. The difference is quite considerable; It would make the balancing article completely wrong, except, of course, if you consider it to be a gross figure, that in net it is not quite that, because you may have found other savings. We will have to find ways to finance the scheme and, on this point, we will need to see a lot more clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u385	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u386	Given the stakes, it is clear that the Government will inform the Assembly's Finance Committee and the Senate Committee if it needs to do so, in order to share information on possible budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u387	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the finance bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u388	We are considering the second part of the finance bill for 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u389	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 903.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u390	The Government had launched a plan to reduce the cost of State procurement in order to generate savings. We are able to transform the procurement function, use it as a tool for environmental transformation or social responsibility, and achieve savings. For the first time, for the year 2022, three amendments relate to this: Amendment No 903 and subsequent Amendments Nos 924 and 902. They aim to achieve 80 million euros of gross savings, i.e. 50 to 55 million net savings. Indeed, the reform plan is based on a principle of interest of the ministries concerned, which recover appropriations in proportion to the savings achieved. In total, we thus reach the modest amount of 80 million euros gross and 50 million net. I therefore consider that I have defended the three amendments relating to the procurement plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u392	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u393	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u394	The implementation of the procurement plan is a good thing; There was a government procurement department, there is now a plan, it's perfect. But what savings do you intend to achieve? I understand that the plan is committed and that you decline the impact almost by mission. You will redeploy credits, why not, but can you specify what general level of savings you are planning, so that we have an overall vision?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u395	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u396	The first step was to develop a methodology based on one principle: to involve the ministries and operators of the State concerned in achieving savings. The return rate to the department is in the range of 30 to 40 per cent of the savings realized. The second step, which is still under way, is to document the savings that can be achieved. Our objective is to document, over a long period of time, 700 to 800 million euros of savings. The initial target was closer to $1 billion, but we excluded the Ministry of Armed Forces from the base of the plan. In view of the weight of the Ministry of Armed Forces in State expenditure, the objective was mechanically lowered to around 800 million euros. The third stage will be implementation. I will subsequently defend an amendment to provide the Interdepartmental Directorate of Public Transformation (DITP) with an additional 10 to 15 staff in order to internalise as many benefits as possible. The rise in power will be gradual; The 80 million gross savings we are proposing for 2022 have been discussed with the various ministries, which explains why we were starting with the first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u397	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 481.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u398	It was tabled by Alain David and aims to sustain the system of emergency support for the education of French scholarship students inscribed in the third bill of amending finance for 2020. It is therefore intended to abound the budget to support the schooling of French children enrolled in the institutions of the Agency for the Teaching of French Abroad (AEFE) network, for the same amount as the emergency aid decided in 2020, i.e. EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u400	In this PLF, the funds voted for scholarships for students in the French education network abroad amount to 94.4 million; they seem sufficient in relation to the needs that the network has communicated to us. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u401	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u402	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u403	Amendment No. 924 of the Government has already been defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u404	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u405	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u406	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I discovered this amendment very recently, since it was tabled last night. It follows a decision we took during the first reading, by adopting Amendment No 789 by Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman. I supported one particular point. With Jean-Noël Barrot, I am the Special Rapporteur of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission. In particular, we have assessed the means available to the administrative services of the prefectures, in particular the foreign office, to accommodate foreigners and to assist them in asserting their rights, including by applying for a residence permit. However, we have seen a significant lack of human resources. Returning to this amendment contradicts the parliamentary intention to provide prefectures with sufficient resources to accommodate foreigners and facilitate their access to rights. I therefore wonder about the Government's amendment, with which I disagree a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u407	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u408	I will go in the same direction: this amendment goes back to that of Mrs De Temmerman, who was adopted after lengthy debates. It was indeed a matter of empowering the deconcentrated State administration in prefectures and sub-prefectures so that it could carry out its tasks properly. The Liberties and Territories Group regrets that the Government has tabled this amendment and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u409	The Government's amendment No. 902 has already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u410	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u411	It was deposited by Véronique Louwagie and aims to support the Mareyage. Indeed, this agri-food sector, which comes immediately after fishing, is experiencing major difficulties, in particular because of your inability to enforce the Brexit Agreement, as regularly reflected in the news about the obstacles that French fishermen face in continuing to work in British waters, as the agreement provided for. The fish market suffers from this. It represents 490 companies and 11,200 employees in France, who need a commitment from the Government. Our intention is just as much to highlight the consequences of your inability to enforce the Brexit agreement as to stress the need to give serious support to the milking industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u412	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u413	With regard to Brexit, we regularly discuss it with the Government. Beyond that, the fairage is sustained. At the budgetary level, the resources are constantly increasing. They come from a number of sources, including the European Brexit adjustment reserve, which France is using effectively, with credits of up to €80 million for the compensation of fixed costs, €12 million to compensate revenue losses and €8 million specifically for marketers. France obviously takes up the problem with arms-the-body and the support is continuous. In addition, the Recovery Plan mission plans to allocate close to €50 million to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's effort to develop innovative ships and boats and to attract quarries, which are also important for the marketing sector. Your amendment concerns more precisely the appropriations for a budget line which the PLF for 2022 has already increased from EUR 5 million to EUR 9 million. Moreover, the state is still at the end of the financial year, with an abundance of between 87 and 150 million euros according to the budget collectives of the legislature, and 340 million euros in the text for 2022. The necessary means have therefore been put in place to respond to your request for fairage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u414	Amendment No 482 by Mr Alain David is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u415	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 923 and 950. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 923.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u416	It aims to support the policy in favour of harkis and their families, in particular by increasing the amount of specific allowances, thanks to an abundance of EUR 18.5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u417	Amendment No 950 by Mr Bertrand Pancher is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u418	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 521.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u419	This amendment by Jean-Christophe Lagarde aims to bring the budget devoted to the Veterans Mission, memory and ties with the Nation to its level in the previous budget. While there is a natural decline in entitlement holders, many veterans' requests remain to be met. Maintaining this budget at the same level as last year would be a good message.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u421	Unfavorable. I stand by the previous amendments submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u422	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 727.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u423	It aims to abound the credits of the Mission Veterans Affairs, memory and ties with the Nation of €18 million, to allow the extension of the benefit of the fiscal half share to widows of veterans whose spouse died before the age of 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u424	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u425	This amendment falls within the scope of taxation rather than budgetary appropriations. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u426	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 918, 939, 940 and 943. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 918.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u427	I will let the parliamentarians who have tabled identical amendments to my own defend them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u428	Mr François Pupponi has the floor to support Amendment No 939.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u429	We have already mentioned, earlier and at first reading, the famous fine known as Corsica Ferries, which put the community of Corsica in difficulty. The Government has decided to abound the PTIC by 50 million euros so that the community of Corsica can maintain its level of investment in 2022, which I welcome. However, community services will need to be closer to government services in order to clarify the terms and conditions of use of this amount. The allocation is allocated exclusively to the community of Corsica, for its investments in 2022, which I am delighted to see: we are coming out from the top of this delicate issue. I allow my colleagues to speak on this, because even if I am the first signatory to the amendment, everyone must be able to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u430	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 940.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u431	I am speaking on behalf of my colleagues Houbron and Potterie, who welcome, with this amendment and with point 919, that we will examine a little later, the release of EUR 29 million in EA and EUR 2.15 million in payment appropriations to strengthen the commitment for the renewal of the mining basin, which initially covered an envelope of EUR 100 million, i.e. EUR 10 million per year over ten years. In particular, the scheme allows the renovation of housing in mining towns, the support of urban development projects or the facilitation of the establishment of enterprises in the mining basin. It is therefore particularly important for the territories concerned. My colleagues Dimitri Houbron and Benoit Potterie and I would like to thank the Government for the abundance of almost 30 million euros in this envelope.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u432	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 943.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u433	It concerns the Corsica Ferries dispute, which we have already mentioned at length, and follows discussions between the state, the services of the Corsican community and parliamentarians. It is essential to support the community of Corsica, because the magnitude of the fine had the effect of completely destabilising its budget. It is fair for the State to commit itself to this issue, since it had granted so-called supplementary service aid for the operation of ships, and management control was not adequately carried out... If this amendment proposes to abound the PTIC, we would prefer that the Corsican community have the direct management of the sums concerned. The current functioning of the ICTP poses a problem, both in terms of its overall amount and in terms of how it is managed on a daily basis – intervention rates, decision-making. This amendment is likely to put an end to the so-called Corsica Ferries dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u434	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u435	I would like to thank the Government for its response, as it undertook to do so at first reading. I hear the exchanges between the deputies from the territory of Corsica and the deputy minister: we have every interest in adopting the Government's amendment, which is perhaps not entirely satisfactory, but nevertheless interesting. You have been right to report your incomprehension – it is an understatement – since the beginning of the examination of the text. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u436	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u437	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u438	I wanted Members to be able to defend these identical amendments, because many of them participated in the discussions. I propose that you not enter into a debate – as is sometimes the case – on the responsibility of one or another. We share the desire to resolve this difficulty and to enable everyone to cope – in this case, with EUR 50 million to finance the investments. Mr. Castellani asked me in particular about how these funds are used, linked to the PTIC, and I appreciate the concern of some Corsican elected officials, since many of the investments eligible for the PTIC are registered there. Flexibility in the use of this EUR 50 million is needed. The State will demonstrate this, I commit myself to it: the objective is that the community of Corsica can use this money to finance current investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u439	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u440	Thank you for your explanation. Without repeating the history, we agree, the community of Corsica has assumed the continuity of public action, which the state now does, even if it does not have governance. We are getting out of a difficult situation and we are very comfortable with it. Can you confirm to us – in terms of the governance of the PTIC in terms of the allocation of investment allocations, which raises some concerns – that this sum is freely available to the community, for investments for the development of the territory of the communes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u441	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u442	I just said, we will be very flexible. The aim is to give the Corsican community latitudes in the use of this EUR 50 million. It is preferable, I say, to avoid further misunderstandings, whether it is to finance community-led investments. If some of the appropriations were to be directed towards investment grants – which is less obvious to us from the point of view of doctrine – we will examine it on a case-by-case basis. Our preference is clearly for financing investments directly by the community, but with freedom of use and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u443	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u444	We take note of your commitment, Minister Delegate, and thank you for that. This way of managing things is quite in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u445	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendments Nos 702, 711, 709 and 712, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u446	They're withdrawn, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u447	Amendments Nos. 905 and 906 of the Government are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u448	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u449	Presented by my colleague Michèle Victory, it aims to double the funds allocated to artistic and cultural practices in school time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u450	Amendments Nos. 925, 928 and 935 of the Government are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u451	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u452	Presented by my colleague Michel Castellani, it aims to abound the appropriations of the mission Ecology, sustainable development and mobility in order to strengthen the resources allocated to the mechanism of the energy check, in order to speed up the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u454	We have already entered an additional EUR 530 million in the amending finance law to increase the amount of the energy cheque by EUR 100 per beneficiary. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u455	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u456	As part of the fact-finding mission on the future of the aviation sector in France, of which I am the co-rapporteur with my colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize, we have heard a number of airlines who have told us of their difficulties. This amendment is only the advance translation of the recommendations of our report: it aims to abound by EUR 400 million the Transport Infrastructure and Services programme, in return for accelerating the renewal of the fleet with a view to the acquisition of more efficient aircraft, aimed at decarbonising the sector and industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u457	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u458	Unfavorable opinion. The debt of the Annex budget Air Control and Operations (BACEA) increased sharply with the crisis, from 667 million euros at the end of 2019 to 2.6 billion euros at the end of this year. Everyone can understand this increase, due to the decrease in traffic, but also to the postponement of the payment of a number of taxes and charges due by airlines. Air navigation taxes and charges will actually increase significantly in 2022, and the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation (DGAC) could hardly do otherwise. I consider this to be an appeal amendment, although it is true that BACEA's debt will be an important issue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u459	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u460	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u461	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u462	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur-general, that the amount envisaged by this amendment may be excessive. However, we must keep this matter of concern in mind, given the crisis in which the aviation industry as a whole has been plunged following the health crisis, but also the investments that will be needed to decarbonize the industry and the efforts required to upgrade, whether in terms of renewal, infrastructure or research.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u463	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u464	One of the amending finance laws – the second or the third – has made it possible to adopt the principle of loans by the State, for the BACEA, in anticipation of these problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u465	Amendment No 186 by Mrs Sylvia Pinel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u466	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 488.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u467	Presented by my colleague Gérard Leseul, it aims to cancel the EUR 180 million reduction foreseen in the draft finance law for the appropriations of the Fund for the prevention of major natural risks. As extreme weather events spread all over the world, as the climate emergency becomes more and more concrete in front of our eyes, the state needs to anticipate environmental risks better. This means giving more resources to our prevention and protection tools in the face of these risks, including the Barnier fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u468	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u469	I would like to point out that the funds allocated to the Barnier Fund have not decreased. They even increased significantly, from 137 million euros in 2019 to 235 million euros in 2022. We consider the amount to be sufficient. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u470	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u471	This amendment by my colleague Michel Castellani aims to abound the appropriations of EUR 1 million for the mission Sustainable ecology, development and mobility, in order to give the community of Corsica the means to clean up the existing risks. The installation of high-performance tools in Bastia, close to the Cap Corse Marine Park, is an absolute emergency given the latest news.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u472	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u473	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment had already been tabled at first reading and the Minister of the Sea, Mrs Annick Girardin, had had the opportunity to reply that resources were well planned in 2022 to meet the storage needs of the Ajaccio intervention centre. However, there are no plans to open a second storage centre in Bastia as you would like. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u474	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u475	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u476	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u477	Mr rapporteur-general, you know a little about the geography of Corsica: when Cape Corsica or Bastia experience episodes of pollution, you know very well that the centre of Ajaccio cannot intervene quickly enough to clean up pollution. The Minister's reply on the centre of Ajaccio is not satisfactory if we are to ensure the proper protection of Cap Corse. That is why this amendment is intended to allow the establishment of an intervention centre in Bastia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u478	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u479	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to ask you about the operation of the MaPrimeRenov' device, which is particularly rigid. Instead of encouraging local expertise to provide global support, the device excludes certain technical solutions used in the thermal insulation of buildings. In fact, the insulation systems under slabs and attices lost are no longer eligible either for the premium of the Energy Saving Certificate – EEC – or for MaPrimeRenov'. In fact, this exclusion discourages some owners who wish to carry out thermal renovation by using these processes, which are sometimes the most suitable. Together with Mrs Louwagie, we would like answers to this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u480	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u481	As the committee has not examined this amendment, I will give you a personal opinion. At first reading, we discussed MaPrimeRénov' at length, which makes it possible to finance part of the insulation work, particularly in the context of global renovations. The amended decree of 14 January 2020 on the energy transition premium includes within the scope of the premium the thermal insulation of glass walls, front walls or gables, roof ramps and roof ceilings and terrace roofs. The exclusion of slab insulation operations and lost roofs is due in particular to their lower energy performance. With regard to MaPrimeRénov', the question of the scope of eligible expenditure still arises. We can, of course, discuss this, but the funds allocated are sufficient. I invite you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u482	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u483	Unfavorable opinion. Without going down to the same level of detail as the rapporteur, I would point out that global solutions are chosen and choices made according to energy performance. We want to stay there.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u484	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u485	It is an appeal amendment that has no legal scope: I withdraw it. I note, however, that there is no answer to the question of insulation under slabs or lost attices.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u486	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u487	I have been in the atrium that since October, insulation work on the lost attic has been eligible for modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u488	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 507, 508, 523 and 662, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u489	Other more robust and effective solutions that would benefit our fellow citizens could be adopted by this House to combat rising energy or fuel prices. Amendment No 507 concerns gas tariffs. I recall that since January 2021, the regulated price of gas has increased by 57% and that for 3 million French, the gas bill has increased by 500 euros in five years. However, the measures you are proposing are insufficient. Indeed, the extra energy check of EUR 100 does not make it possible to compensate for the rise in energy prices. Moreover, it will be financed by the increase in VAT revenues linked to the increase in energy prices. The tariff shield is hardly better: if it blocks tariffs from November onwards, it has no effect on the colossal increases that have taken place since July. The reductions will be offset in 2023 by higher-than-expected regulated tariffs. Specifically, regulated tariffs will decrease less than expected after the winter in order to offset the cost of measures under this tariff shield. Instead of this pass trick, we propose to introduce a real blockage of gas prices. Amendment No 508 seeks to block electricity prices. I would like to know why the Government and the rapporteur are opposed to these proposals. Amendment No 523 seeks to block the prices of petrol. The rise in fuel prices weighs significantly more on the poorest households. You will agree that the inflation compensation, which is supposed to respond to this increase in fuel prices, is largely inadequate. On the other hand, it does not benefit the most modest households, as we have repeated many times. If this measure is visible and suggests that you are acting, it is definitely not effective. I would like to know why you are opposed to this price freeze, which would be much more effective. Finally, Amendment No 662 aims to abolish energy cuts and guarantee an unconditional right of access to energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u490	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u491	I overlook the form of the amendments: they are call amendments aimed at creating budgetary programmes at 1 euro. We are not opposed to price blocking, since we are putting in place a shield on gas prices, which freezes prices and protects purchasing power. With regard to electricity prices, a government amendment, which we will be looking at shortly, aims to limit to 4% the increase in regulated tariffs scheduled for February next. We therefore block prices, but it is normal to plan a smoothing over the following years. Our responsibility is to preserve the purchasing power of the most modest households; We are doing this by allocating budgetary appropriations to schemes such as the inflation allowance and the energy check. To answer your question, we are not opposed to price freezes because we block them on a cyclical basis. We have done so at first reading on the domestic tax on natural gas consumption – ICTGN – and the ICTFE, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u492	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u493	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u494	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 934.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u495	It aims to implement the State procurement savings plan and to increase the compensation paid to La Poste for its press transport mission by almost EUR 14 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u496	Identical Amendments Nos 56 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 603 by Mr Christophe Naegelen are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u497	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 921.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u498	It aims to implement the Destination France plan, presented by the Head of Government, by allocating 150 million euros to the public guarantee fund for operators of travel and stays, which will allow the establishment of a system of public reinsurance of the market of the financial guarantees of these operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u499	The Government's amendment No. 909 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u500	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 468, 469, 471, 474, 472 and 470, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u501	These amendments were tabled by my colleague Sylvie Tolmont. Amendment No 468 seeks to raise teachers' salaries massively throughout their careers instead of giving them bonuses. Amendment No 469 is intended to finance the tenure of part of the secondary education contract. Amendment No 471 aims to allocate additional appropriations under Title 2 of the Student Life Programme in order to address the worrying situation of accompanying students with disabilities – AESH. Amendment No 474 aims to increase the number of localised units for school inclusion – ULIS. Amendment No 472 aims to strengthen the resources of the special support networks for pupils in difficulty – RASED. Finally, Amendment No 470 seeks to increase the means of school medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u502	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u503	Funding for national education is increasing in the PLF for 2022, but also since the beginning of the legislature. A major boost was given in 2021, with teachers' salaries being improved. We share your concerns and respond to them at a steady pace: the amount of money allocated to the ministry during the quinquennium amounts to almost €6 billion. We continue to upgrade the remuneration of teachers, especially at the beginning of a career, in order to make the profession more attractive. I invite you to withdraw your amendments; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u504	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u505	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u506	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u507	I would like to warn you about ULIS, because there is a serious lack of facilities for the care of children with disabilities. Let us take a very concrete example: in my constituency of the Meuse border of Belgium, parents of children with disabilities are obliged to attend school abroad in Belgium. The State does not fulfil its obligations with regard to the care of these children. Moreover, it does not take charge of their school transport, maintaining staggering inequalities. The State must show much more voluntarism in this regard; It is not possible to maintain such inequalities between children.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u508	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 510 and 511 which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u509	The aim of Amendment No 510 by our colleague Béatrice Descamps is to raise the wages of school nurses. In the framework of the Grenelle de l'éducation, they obtained a revalued amount of 400 euros per year. We would like them to benefit from the same improvement as their hospital nurses and nurses, simply to make the profession more attractive. It is difficult to find nurses and school nurses. This occupation is difficult, especially during this particular period when schoolchildren can be confined; It is therefore important to upgrade it. Amendment No 511 aims to create posts for school psychologists. In a difficult health situation, we need psychologists. It would be a good idea to make provision for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u510	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u511	All these amendments relate to the national education budget. Mr President, you have referred to the increase in appropriations, but we believe that it is insufficient. The State, and in particular national education, is the poor parent of society in terms of prevention, training and equipment to prevent injuries such as musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). There is a need for a real plan. I therefore maintain all the amendments tabled by Sylvie Tolmont.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u512	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u513	Disadvantaged on all these amendments relating to the appropriations for national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u514	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u515	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u516	Amendments Nos 871 by Bruno Studer, 467 by Sylvie Tolmont, 313 by Marie-Christine Dalloz, 466 by Michèle Victory, and 476 and 473 by Sylvie Tolmont are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u517	Amendment No. 933 of the Government is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u518	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 506.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u519	This is an appeal amendment, by which we propose to draw up EUR 120 million of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations under Title 2 from the appropriations of the programme Conduct and control of economic and financial policies, to increase those of the programme Fiscal and financial management of the State and local public sector to the amount of 40 million for the action Taxation of SMEs, 40 million for the action Taxation of individuals and local direct taxation, and 40 million for the action Financial management of the local public sector excluding taxation. I remember the answer given to me by the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the committee, while the minister did not reply to me: they said that it was not necessary to increase the number of staff in order to monitor more. I note, however, that it seems difficult to control more with fewer controllers. Otherwise, how can we understand the bad results of tax control? It only notified EUR 10.2 billion in 2020, a 25% decrease in one year, 50% in five years. How can we understand that tax control pays less, if not because there are fewer personnel to control?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u520	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u521	You are simplifying our dialogue somewhat, but we are not going to resume all these exchanges. I have often said that full-time equivalents (FTEs) are not the alpha and omega of the fight against tax fraud and for recovery. Much work is being done, particularly within the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties (DGDDI), as well as in all the administrations involved in this fight. Parliament passed the Anti-Fraud Act, which established the tax police and opened Bercy's lock. This majority does not have to blush the efforts made in the fight against tax fraud. I maintain that this is not just a title 2 in a mission, but a comprehensive policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u522	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u523	The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u524	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u525	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u526	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u527	Thank you very much for your answer. However, I note that 600 French are mentioned in the recent tax evasion scandal revealed by the Pandora Papers. I do not know if the anti-fraud law has been effective, but I take note of the result we have seen this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u528	The Government's amendment No. 907 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u529	The Government's amendment No. 926 is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u530	Amendments Nos 57 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 604 by Mr Christophe Naegelen are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u531	Amendments Nos. 911 and 912 of the Government are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u532	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u533	The amendment tabled by Sylvain Brial is in line with the one I tabled earlier. The aim is to respond to strikes related to the establishment of an FPT in Wallis and Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u534	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u535	I said earlier that this was not the subject of a revenue levy (SRP); It is also not the subject of appropriations. Rather, it is a call for the establishment of this FPT. In fact, this issue is not within the purview of our text, but rather a negotiation with the Department of the Public Service. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u536	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 932.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u537	The aim of this amendment is to redeploy within the recovery plan, as we anticipate under-consumption of the credits linked to the long-term partial activity (LDPA). This under-consumption will allow us to finance the extension of bonuses for the recruitment of an apprentice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u538	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u539	I would like to take this opportunity to commend the action taken in favour of learning. This redeployment shows that we need to continue to encourage companies to use apprentices. This device works well; The number of apprentices has never been so high.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u540	School failure too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u541	This is a very good response to the crisis and tensions in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u542	Amendments Nos 483 by Mrs Valérie Rabault, 631 by Mrs Sabine Rubin and 738 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u543	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 630.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u544	By this appeal amendment, we propose that appropriations be allocated to rail freight, because the means provided are largely insufficient to achieve a true ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u545	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendments Nos 570, 569 and 329, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u546	Amendment No 570 aims to create a fund dedicated to the transformation of State-guaranteed loans (GLP) into quasi-equity funds for businesses, particularly those located in Corsica. Amendment No 569 aims to create a new programme in the Recovery Plan mission to set up a transition fund dedicated to Corsican companies affected by the crisis, with a total of EUR 100 million. Amendment No 329 is a credit amendment to accompany Corsica in the recovery while the community has to face a record fine. However, I withdraw Amendment No 329 to take account of the adoption of the Government's previous amendment, which was the same as that tabled by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u547	On the other hand, I maintain Amendments Nos 570 and 569 on a completely different subject, that of support for the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u548	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u549	It turns out that the debt wall we feared for our SMEs that have subscribed to EMPs is not that problematic. It is true that companies will find themselves in difficulty, and it is necessary to foresee rescheduling, balance sheet restructuring, but the vast majority of companies, thanks to a faster and stronger recovery than expected, will be able to cope with their debt. As a result, the capital shift is less necessary than expected. We have seen this with the lack of success, which is not necessarily bad news, of the participatory loans that we have put in place. As you said, Amendment No 329 is already satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u550	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u551	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u552	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u553	The Committee on Economic Affairs has heard from a number of sectors and sectors. Indeed, some companies – and this is happy – have either not used participative loans or have no problem in repaying EMPs due to the rapid recovery. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to certain sectors, such as construction and public works (BTP), which face an increase in the price of raw materials and materials, an increase in the cost of energy, as in companies which benefit from electro-intensive energy. Stakeholders in the field have expressed concern about EMPs. I understand what the rapporteur-general is saying, but I draw the Minister's attention to a number of areas which, given the economic context, are experiencing or may be experiencing difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u554	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u555	I confirm what the rapporteur-general has said. Moreover, this is also confirmed by the Banque de France, which has established that the default rate could be less than 4% for EMPs, which is very good news that we all welcome. From the beginning of next week, we will bring together in Bercy the various sectors concerned by the supply difficulties in order to better accompany them. Whenever we can thus participate in the regulation of the sector, we do so. As far as the electro-intensive industries you mentioned are concerned, you may recall that during the first reading, in the second part, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, responsible for industry, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, had the opportunity to introduce amendments to allow advance carbon compensation payments, in particular, in order to accompany the most carbon-intensive industries in the face of their cash flow difficulties. We are therefore very attentive to the difficulties that companies may encounter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u556	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u557	I do not go back to the amendments that Sylvia Pinel has put forward perfectly. I will not bid, especially after the agreement we reached on the Corsica Ferries dispute. Deputy Minister, I know that you are showing good will to us and that you are familiar with the Corsican dossier. In the future, it will be necessary to flatten all the devices from which Corsica benefits, which are relatively disparate, which overlap in part and have perverse effects. They should be replaced by a single tax system that is social and effective in terms of development.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u558	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 629.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u559	With this amendment, we wish to reaffirm the need for a much more ambitious commitment to achieve the targets set by the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth of 17 August 2015. All housing needs to be renovated according to "low consumption" standards by 2050, which means renovating 700000 housing units per year and committing an additional €20 billion each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u560	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 485.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u561	This is an appeal amendment that seeks to question the Government on the very small number of dwellings removed from the thermal pass through the MaPrimeRenov' system in relation to the target set in the PLF for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u562	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u563	In fact, the Government had set itself the goal of removing 80000 dwellings from the status of thermal passory by 2021. This target has been revised downwards, with only 2500 housing units leaving. This represents a thirty-two-fold division of the original objective. By 2022, the Government had set a target of 20,000 housing units, four times less than the target set for 2021. Yet, as indicated in the budget annex, "energy renovation of private housing is an important axis of the recovery plan". It is also an important mechanism to combat global warming. Do you have any answers, Minister Delegate?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u564	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u565	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u566	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u567	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u568	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u569	I would add that, according to the Court of Auditors, verification of the quality and efficiency of the work in the field of the fight against thermal colanders and energy insecurity is not ensured – this is one of the effects of MaPrimeRenov'.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u570	I call Mr Raphaël Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u571	Mrs Dalloz's amendment aims to strengthen the budgetary effort to support farmers who wish to invest to protect their crops from climatic hazards – hail, droughts and other growing disadvantages. The State must help them, they must be able to rely on national solidarity: it is a question of sovereignty and independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u572	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u573	I would point out that the support package for farmers provided for in the recovery plan was EUR 200 million, in particular following the freezing episode. A much-anticipated bill will be tabled shortly, as you know, to reform the agricultural insurance system – the state will put 600 million euros on the table. It is therefore clear that, in the aftermath of this crisis, our farmers are supported by the public authorities, in particular by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u574	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u575	I simply add that the amending finance law has provided EUR 500 million to supplement the compensation schemes after the April freezing episode. In the future, of course, we hope that the insurance provisions will make it possible to better protect farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u576	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u577	You answer next to the plate. We do not ask you here to increase the insurance or support credits after the freezing episode, but to prepare the next one. It is in our mind to prevent farmers from resorting to state aid after a climate hazard, and to do so, to allow them to equip themselves to protect their crops before such a hazard occurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u578	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 484.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u579	I didn't get an answer to my question about MaPrimeRenov' and I guess it's going to be the same here. We would like to have a very precise state of the recovery plan. The indicator, on page 18 of the budgetary annex, shows that the rate of consumption of payment appropriations for 2021 has been reduced to 74 %, compared with an initial target of 100 %.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u580	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-12-10-O1094.u581	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2022 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
