ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the management of the health crisis (No 4415, 4416). As the Senate has not completed its business, I will have to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u2	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u3	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u4	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u5	This Sunday evening we conclude a week – I would even say: a marathon – at every extraordinary point, which ends in the best of ways, with a robust and demanding agreement that we have been able to find, in responsibility, with our honourable senators. Faced with the reality that now represents this fourth wave of the epidemic of covid-19, whose power is growing ever more, time was counted. He forced us to work and deliberate under difficult conditions. The text that I have the honour to present to you as rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee – CMP – which was held at the end of the afternoon is nevertheless up to the stakes. I am confident that it will address the immediate and concrete challenges posed by this new epidemic resurgence. Before you this evening, I shall return to the main provisions which have been the subject of a compromise between our two chambers in relation to the text which we adopted on Thursday morning. First of all, the health crisis management regime, which includes the health pass that we are going to extend, is extended until 15 November, and not until 31 December as foreseen in the original text. The consolidation of this regime, however, is, in my view, the key to maintaining our level of vigilance against the virus, and the measures we are implementing to combat it. I believe that the extended perimeter of the health pass has been strengthened in order to allow for the most effective application, from a health point of view, of this tool, which should allow for the maintenance of activities while fighting more effectively against epidemic circulation. The penalties for the operator have been reviewed in a dissuasive and proportionate manner, which will be based on a warning and administrative closure system. For the employee, the sanction scheme will be based on a suspension of the contract, and hence its remuneration, and we have preferred not to introduce any specific grounds for dismissal. With regard to isolation measures, we have found an acceptable balance which has preserved a system based on constraint and which will be monitored under a two-tier system: first, the control, which I will call classic, implemented by the health insurance, and then, in the event of non-compliance or suspicion of non-compliance, by the law enforcement authorities. With regard to the vaccination obligation, many of the Senate's contributions have been retained by the CMP, many of which focus on technical aspects and are intended to ensure confidentiality as much as possible. I would like to confirm one important development: the continued possibility for professionals who, although not completely vaccinated, justify, between 15 September and 15 October, the injection of one in two doses and produce a negative screening test. This timely flexibility will therefore affect the professionals who have started their vaccination journey. We also clarified the scope of the professionals involved by re-establishing an exclusion that we had adopted at first reading and by providing a new one for volunteers from accredited civil security associations who do not participate in field missions. Furthermore, as in the past, we have removed the specific reason for dismissal. Finally, we have extended the absence permit regime for covid-19 vaccination to include trainees and appointments for adult protected persons, thereby facilitating the vaccination of these persons. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we have just done a useful work to arm our country against this fourth wave.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u6	What would be good would be to have vaccines! That people don't have to wait four weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I understand that the sacrifices requested are demanding. I believe, however, that the balanced text of the CMP is best able to guarantee the protection of the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u8	[[Applause fed on the benches of the LaREM group. – Several Members of the LaREM Group rise to applaud]] The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u9	They didn't all get up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u10	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I could, if I had the permission, I would applaud you for the intense work that has been yours for a week now: in total, sixty hours of debate took place in this chamber and in the Senate around this text on measures to combat the health emergency...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u11	We couldn't do anything here, work was done elsewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] ...and I do not count the hours spent by the Members present here in the Joint Joint Committee and which have led to conclusions shared between the majority government and the opposition, who hold the majority in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u13	There was no debate here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u14	We are living in a difficult epidemic environment. We are all living, with a perfectly understandable fatigue and which is also that of the French, an epidemic crisis that endures, raises fears, has paralyzed our country as you know, and has put us into tension. The French have shown us for a year and a half that they are solid, resilient, courageous, supportive, far beyond what some might consider or anticipate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u15	Because they were united! You divide them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u16	Once again, as you know, we need Parliament's confidence in order to have exceptional measures to combat the health crisis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to remind them very briefly of these measures. First of all, this is the famous sanitary pass, on which I do not come back, because it was debated and re-debated day and night throughout the week. You know that we will use it sparingly and for as short a time as possible: at the minute that we can do without it, as we could do without masks outside, we will make the decision to remove all these constraints. The health pass cannot therefore be extended beyond the date of 15 November, which has been the subject of a consensus between the deputies and the senators meeting in the Joint Joint Committee. On 15 November, it is not so far away and, if we can get away with it earlier, we will of course do so. The sanitary pass will be checked in the various establishments receiving the public (ERP) in which it is required. The penalties now provided for by law, if you decide here in a few minutes by your vote, will be more proportionate than in the initial version of the government text, but the Government has been very sensitive to the debates that have taken place in this assembly and in the Senate...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u17	No, you didn't want to hear anything here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u18	... which have made it possible to envisage more graduated, more weighted and, we believe, equally effective devices. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the Dem group]] A second feature of this bill is the vaccination obligation for caregivers, which we consider necessary and which we do not see as punishment, punishment, ostracism, but rather as protection for those who care for us and who take care of us when we need it. It is also a protection for their patients, as well as for the elderly in specialized EHPAD-type institutions. This vaccination obligation of health care providers is therefore provided for in the text of the Joint Joint Committee, which I find very positive: as from 15 September, all caregivers who have received a first injection and who have therefore integrated a vaccination route would not be subject to the control or even sanction scheme and would have one more month, that is, until 15 October, to be up to date with their vaccination schedule. That goes in the right direction. A third provision concerns the conditions of isolation, protection of people who are positive for coronaviruses, and therefore potentially contagious. Again, a gradation was proposed by the senators, which had been debated on the benches of the National Assembly. We come here: first of all there will be administrative control by the RSA – regional health agency – or health insurance, which, as they already do, will call the people concerned. The difference with the current provisions lies in the fact that, until now, when sickness insurance failed to reach a sick person at home, it could only remind him indefinitely: nothing more was happening. From now on, the internal security forces can be warned that there may be a problem and go to the patient's home to make sure that he or she spends well in isolation during the period during which he or she is contagious. Again, this is a necessary step, which will be useful at a time when the epidemic is resuming in our country. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond these three original princeps provisions, which have obtained the agreement of the two chambers within the framework of the Joint Joint Committee, others will enrich the text. On the one hand, minors between the ages of 12 and 16 may be vaccinated by permission of only one of their parents, according to an amendment by MP Sacha Houlié, and those between the ages of 16 and 17 without parental authorization, according to a provision proposed by senators. These measures are part of other common health legislation and will simplify the vaccination of minors. On the other hand, I will have the honour to present to you an amendment already adopted by the Senate majority, which aims to restore in the text the possibility for prefects to impose the presentation of the sanitary pass at the entrance to the major shopping centres, under conditions defined by decree for reasonable and reasonable use. If an epidemic outbreak were to occur in a given territory, we would not have to close these centres. I thank the Senate once again for accepting this last-minute amendment, which takes into account the debates in both houses. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to those who tax the Government on authoritarianism, who evoke an autocratic drift...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u19	At least!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u20	... or even – why not? – a dictatorship, the best answer is what you will do to them in a few minutes. The adoption of this bill by both the Senate and the National Assembly will be proof that it has federated the government majority and the main opposition groups into a national unit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u21	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u22	[[Exclaims on FI banks. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] Again, there is no better answer to his detractors, and I thank you for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u23	I call Mrs Braun-Pivet, Vice-President of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u24	Minister, you have recalled: the context is difficult. The debates of the two chambers were no less so; We have experienced it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as in the Chamber. Finally, the discussions in the Joint Joint Committee have not failed to be so. However, from the beginning – that is what honours us, and you have said, minister – we have all shown a strong sense of responsibility. In my dual capacity as Chair of the Law Committee and Vice-Chair of the Joint Joint Committee, I would like to begin by thanking you, regardless of your political background, regardless of your beliefs and commitments. You've known so far, and I'm sure you'll know during the vote, raising you up to the stakes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on a few benches of the IUD-I group]] We are now in the seventh text on the state of health emergency; Four times, however, we have managed to reach an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee. It's not nothing! Each time, we have been guided by the desire to protect our compatriots from an epidemic that continues to plague and continues to die, to protect our freedoms, to protect our great principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u25	You've got to protect them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u26	The agreement reached earlier achieved these three objectives. Protecting our citizens, first of all: thanks to the reinforced health pass,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u27	A gas factory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u28	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] ... we should be able to avoid more restrictive measures – confinement or closures. Unfortunately, we are not in a position to guarantee this; But we hope so, for that is what we believe is good for our country. With the vaccination obligation, with the protective measures provided for in this text, we also believe that we can better ensure the health security of our compatriots. In this context, Parliament's powers should be increased, because democratic control is essential at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u29	You snobbled the parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u30	That is why the text includes a re-visit clause on 15 November: Parliament will then be called upon to legislate again. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have also adopted an amendment by our colleague Philippe Vigier with a view to regular parliamentary scrutiny, and another by Philippe Bas, the rapporteur for the Senate of the Joint Committee, to ensure that the Government communicates reports on the health situation to us on a regular basis. The protection of the French therefore goes hand in hand with greater control of Parliament and with the protection of our great freedoms – because you do not like it, it is only by preserving this balance that we will protect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u31	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u32	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] Tomorrow, if we do not support this text, the freedom to go and come, the freedom to undertake, the freedom to work, to study, to access cultural places will again be restricted! We therefore believe – for my part, I firmly believe – that this agreement in the Joint Joint Committee increases the chances that our country will have of overcoming the crisis: that is why I hope to see it very widely adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u33	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Emperor Caligula, it is said, wanted to impose his horse as a consul: he thus tested the resistance of the Roman Senate. Emmanuel Macron wants to impose the health pass: he tests the French' attachment to their freedoms. The pass will have no beneficial effect on the health of the population; On the contrary, there must be a fear that he may threaten it, since forced vaccination is strongly not recommended by the World Health Organization, the WHO. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] You don't want to know that vaccinated people – of whom I am, of whom we are all – can still not only be infected, but spread the virus. You make the tests fee-paying and therefore rare, contrary, again, to the WHO recommendations. In the midst of a collective crisis, the management of the epidemic in the secrecy of the health defence councils amounts to allowing the country to be governed by a single person, the President of the Republic, who must then review half of the decisions because they are unmanageable. Now you are embarking on an even more risky slope: you enter into the intimacy of the healthy or sick body, suffering or dying, to establish there the reign of your absurd laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u36	Then read Hannah Arendt, to see where these political break-ins inevitably lead in the intimate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u37	You threaten them with a fine of 9,000 euros and the administrative closure of the establishment. An employee comes to work without a pass: that's his salary suspended. If he's in a CDD or a mission contract, he can be fired immediately!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u38	That's not true! Mr Mélenchon has not worked on the text of the Joint Joint Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u39	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] On the other hand, by an assumed class ostentation, you do not impose the presentation of the pass at the entrance of the boards of directors or shareholders' meetings! A person is tested positive: he/she finds himself/herself committed to forced isolation, with a possible visit by the police. The BAC, the Anti-Criminality Brigade, at home! Why not the BRAV-Ms, the brigades for the repression of motorized violent action? A caregiver is not vaccinated: suspended! He'll have to learn to live without his salary. Dismaying regime, where the social threat replaces dialogue. The rule of a control bureaucracy can only be an absurdity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u40	It's not the Cuban regime!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u41	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] For you, we contaminate in TGVs, but not in RERs; in restaurants, but not in schools. Caregivers, firefighters, waiters, cinemaphiles, theaters can transmit the virus, but not the police! You force the sick to isolate themselves from their homes, but no matter if they live in an overcrowded dwelling – you would not go to requisition the thousands of hotel rooms available. And then here are the vaccinations controlled by non-vaccinates, verified from one stop of the train to another, and how many other finds of the same order! It seems that their purpose is only a kind of generalized training of the refractory Gauls, forced to obey, to obey again, against all reason, in spite of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u42	He's been leaving you for a long time, common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u43	The sanitary pass is the authoritarian pass. The health pass is the social discrimination assumed, as the vaccination map reveals. [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Freedom is our property: you have no right over it! Of course, all freedom has limits, but they can only be fixed by having scrupulously done it and the hand trembling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] For the friends of freedom, it's better to be wrong not to ban enough than to ban too much! We are not a people of patients or potential delinquents, we are a people of citizens. Now, while you impose these absurdities, you do not plan anything to organize the rotation of workers, to install air purifiers everywhere, to strengthen the means of the public hospital and to bring back the 180,000 people who have left it. Nothing for the return of 12 million students and their teachers: what will happen to millions of children who are not vaccinated at the time of the swimming pool, music classes, extracurricular activities? Finally, you continue to oppose the free production of vaccines, while only 2% of Africans have benefited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u46	[["Yes! » on the benches of the FI group]] Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u47	We felt the delirium of the moment when, at five o'clock in the morning, at first reading, you had an article put to the vote for the sole purpose of cancelling the adoption of an amendment tabled by Caroline Fiat which removed the obligation to present the health pass in order to hold the hand of a dying parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u48	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u49	Unhappy! Help, Antigone, come back! For you know the story of Oedipus' daughter: Sophocle brought her to the theatre five centuries B.C.E. Against the law enacted by her uncle, who holds power, she decides at the risk of her life to bury her brother, condemned for his rebellion to remain without burial.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u50	Long live Creon! Read Anouilh again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u51	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Here is his universal, timeless lesson: respect for the right of everyone is our first duty. Since then, this tragedy has inspired ten plays, so many films since 1961, eleven operas since 1762, more than thirty major works in twenty-four centuries: you had the means to know what to stick to about the fact that under certain circumstances permission is not requested. There is no prohibition against moral duty. We are not waiting for the validation of the controls, the paperwork, the bureaucracy that you install to the gates of death! [["Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] In this case, once again, it will be an honour to disobey and be unsubmissive! Here, we have only one duty: to say whether or not this text adequately addresses the pandemic. But we believe that it only diminishes our freedoms. We must therefore reject him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Mrs Caroline Fiat warmly exclaims]] [[Caroline Fiat continues to exclaim]] The Government, of course, has an unfavorable opinion on this rejection motion; Everyone will be able to understand why. I listened carefully to every word you said, Mr.President Mélenchon, and there were very little details in your long speech: the virus, the sick, the victims. Not a word for the pandemic! Not a word for the sick! Not a word for the thousands of contaminations on a daily basis! Not a word for health care providers in hospitals! Not a word for young people who suffer from long covid. Not a proposal to help us fight the epidemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u54	Mrs. Fiat, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u55	Listening to the verva, the oratory talent and the determination – I dare say the rabies – that was in your speech, Mr Mélenchon, I thought that if you devoted half of the energy you deployed to combat the epidemic's braking measures to help us fight the epidemic itself, you would be a hell of a partner! [[Caroline Fiat always exclaims]] I would like to add two small clarifications on the substance. First...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u56	Mrs. Fiat, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u57	I spoke to the chairman of your group, ma'am, and I didn't think I'd hit you. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] Firstly, the text of the Joint Joint Committee no longer provides for dismissal, a measure that you had challenged. If it was a blocking point, you can now vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u58	And you want to be deprived of your salary?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] The second point is also noteworthy: the health pass does not apply in health and medical-social institutions when a patient is visited at the end of his or her life or when a medical emergency occurs. On this point too, Mr Mélenchon, your criticism of the substance of the text has therefore been heard, since Members have already voted on these provisions. I have not noticed much more objections, apart from the affirmation of the general principle of freedoms. You may wish to withdraw your motion of rejection; If not, I reiterate the Government's unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, a number of speakers have registered to speak in explanation of vote on the motion to reject. I invite groups that have not yet shown their willingness to intervene to ask me if they wish to do so. Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u61	Dismissals for CDDs, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u62	Come, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who wishes to speak will be able to speak. I invite you to let the speakers speak in a calm manner. Mr Bourlanges, and he alone, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u63	Mr Mélenchon, I have a great deal of respect for insubmission; I have a lot of respect for anarchy. I do not believe that there are any more beautiful words in politics than Fernand Pelloutier's writings calling for a moral requirement for everyone. But I'm not an anarchist...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u64	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... and we must not be, for we know that the world is not composed of gods: it is composed of men, with their weaknesses. But we are faced with things that you do not accept, but that are essential. The spirit of responsibility is superior, Mr. Mélenchon, to the spirit of insubmission! To have the spirit of responsibility is to face, and to do it together. In one of his last messages, General de Gaulle said: "Life is a fight, success costs effort and salvation requires victory". Yes, we are engaged in a fight against an absolute, omnipresent, unknown evil whose origins surprise us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u66	We told you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Who would have said, a year and a half ago, that we would be facing the fourth wave today? We face with the means of the edge, as we can, with courage and determination! Yes, success costs effort. That is true, we offer the French rigor, courage and obligations. You have to take care of them! Churchill offered the British suffering and sacrifices: it was the condition of success! Success requires victory!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u68	You have to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, on several benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, on several benches of the IUD-I group and on a few benches of the LR group. – Many Members of the LaREM and Dem groups stand up]] That is why we are in favour of the text of the Joint Joint Committee. It must allow the victory of the whole of France! Its supporters bring together the two assemblies, two parties and the great sensitivities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u70	I would remind you that explanations of vote must not exceed two minutes. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u71	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] It is surprising, dear and dear colleagues, to see a joint joint commission wisely wait for three hours for the Government's arbitrations, when it is up to it to go to the outposts and to carry out these arbitrations itself. It is surprising to see a government correct with an amendment the copy of the same CMP. It is for us the sign of Parliament's lowering, which we have been denouncing for too long now. I must say that it is less surprising to see a part of the right agree with another part of the right, even though I must admit that not all have participated in this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u73	It must also be recognized that the work done by the Senate has led to adjustments, often of common sense, some of which had been examined here, but had been pushed back by one hand on the pretext that they were proposed by another side – the one that had been designated with the words I heard right now in the mouth of the minister. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But this does not change for us the substance of the text or the philosophy that drives the Government's action. The mechanisms remain depriving of liberty, punitive and exclusive. With this text, we remain in control and constraint rather than trying to weave the threads of trust and cohesion, to deploy a renewed offensive to generalize vaccination by fighting social and health inequalities in France and around the world. Determined to fight the virus and get out of this health crisis, we will remain opposed to this text and will therefore vote on the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u74	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u75	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] More than 18 months ago, we didn't know the covid virus. If there is any certainty that we have gained, it is that it is spreading at high speed V, especially its delta variant. In Deauville, the incidence rate increased from 300 per 100,000 inhabitants last Monday to 800 yesterday. Acting together prefers responsibility to the outside world; to fake news, we prefer the truth. We therefore reject this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u76	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Fake news is what Macron said about the vaccine this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u77	[[Brouhahaha]] Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor. A little calm, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u78	Each of us is guided by his conscience. Speaker Mélenchon is consciously opposed to a number of measures in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u80	It's his strictest right. But I found, Mr. Mélenchon, that some of your remarks were incorrect and that you were unfortunately a bit caricatural. You have indeed said inaccurate things about the bill. This was the subject of the parliamentary shuttle: thanks to the work of the Senate and then of the Joint Joint Committee, certain points of technical balance a little more favourable could be found. Of course – and you're told by a health pass promoter – no one is satisfied with the measures contained in the bill. No one is satisfied with their application a little brutal, because very fast. Nevertheless, the figures are there; the evolution of the epidemic is there. Moreover, the map of France of the epidemic evolution linked to the delta variant exactly intersects the map of the tourist destinations of the French. Everyone is therefore well aware – our fellow citizens first, and as much as we do – that we will unfortunately have to pay great attention, even more than before, and go through measures that no one wants. These measures, in fact, are in breach of our individual and collective freedoms, but if they are not implemented, other measures that are even more in breach of our freedoms will have to be decided. You're as much a defender of freedom as we are, colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u81	Don't insult us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u82	[[Applause on several benches of the IDU-I and Dem groups]] You are defenders of freedom as much as we are, but agree that in the state of emergency in which we find ourselves, these additional measures are necessary. We will therefore reject your motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u83	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u84	Since the great authors are summoned, I will probably do so indirectly. One of them, who is generally quite appreciated, said that to be a man is to be responsible and to feel – I am somewhat short of the quotation – by laying his stone that one helps to build the world; It's Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The responsibility of a Member of Parliament is to vote the laws. Being a member of a government party is also responsible. We share disagreements, sometimes with you, Mr Mélenchon, sometimes with other colleagues on all benches, because divisions are not always the same; they are not always political, nor politicians; They are made of our sensitivities and, in a certain way, of flesh and blood, for they are a small part, sometimes, of each and every one of us and of the mystery that makes us think as we do and not always as our party. [[Applause on several benches of the LR, LaREM and Dem groups]] But the Republicans are a government party that aspires to return to business. Our party takes on differences with the majority, but it also undertakes to commit itself. Today, there is an urgent need, because no one can dispute that our citizens need protection. No one can dispute that action must be taken. The house is burning, we will not look elsewhere and will therefore not be able to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u86	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u87	At a time when the Government is pushing for the adoption of this bill, which should instead be renamed the "extension of the state of health emergency", aimed at tightening the rules of the health pass to encourage the greatest number of vaccinations, several lines of vaccine fracture cross the country: a well-vaccinated territory in the west and north, but a delay in the south-east; a higher vaccination rate in cities than in periphery and well-off municipalities than in the most underprivileged municipalities. This triple vaccine fracture should be addressed by the Government. This should be his priority: to combat social inequalities and health inequalities. To vaccinate is to protect one's health and freedom, and it is also to protect the health and freedom of others. This is why, in the face of the growth of the variant that poses a risk of re-defining, it would have been important to clearly take a new stage with universal and massive vaccination against covid. This could have been a step-by-step measure, involving all our citizens and not stigmatizing one or two professions. It must be noted that the vaccine drop-out map is now a near-decalch of the socio-economic inequality map. However, the bill before us provides for an extension of the sanitary pass in cafes and restaurants, fairs and salons, medical establishments, aircraft, trains and buses on long journeys, but not on the subway or on the bus. It also provides for expansion in cultural venues, cinemas and concerts, but not in places of worship. Users of sports clubs or ERPs with more than fifty people are subject to vaccination, but not volunteers. Caregivers, professionals working with the elderly and firefighters are subject to this, but not the police. [[Mrs. Karine Lebon applauds. – Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] How do you want our fellow citizens to be there? This system is particularly likely to lead to a two-speed France: that of the health pass and that of the sans-passe, with, of course, social and income conditions as the dividing line. We want the opposite: we want a massive and inclusive vaccination. Unfortunately, the Government's text does not provide for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u88	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u89	This bill is not only inconsistent to pursue an effective public health policy in the face of the covid-19 epidemic, but it also endorses a new and serious decline in fundamental rights and freedoms. The group of France opposed this throughout the discussion, trying to defend its alternative proposals, despite the extremely restrictive conditions for examination. As you do not mind, minister, the proposals, we have made since the beginning of the crisis: hundreds of amendments, eleven bills, six proposals for plans and emergency measures, four analytical guides, a commission of inquiry. If you had deigned to consider them with something other than the Jupitian contempt that characterizes you, they would have allowed, for more than a year, to build a consensus around thoughtful answers collectively,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u90	Where were you during the debate? We haven't seen you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u91	... based on popular mobilization and a genuine health democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Instead, you preferred to lie and sail on sight, giving yourself back to the oracles of the pseudo-chief epidemiologist who decides everything without being accountable to anyone. France continues to oppose the lifting of patents within the World Trade Organization (WTO). The means demanded by the caregivers have not been granted, on the contrary you have continued the breakdown of the public health service and, to hear you, the heroes of yesterday are today bastards. Health, economic, social and territorial inequalities, which have been growing steadily over the past four years, have increased further. We refuse to break the country even further by opposing, among citizens, the immunized gentiles to the bad and bad unvaccinated. We refuse to restrict even more the rights and freedoms of all, to live with QR code for consentors and consentors, and batons for recalcitrants and recalcitrants. For us, "freedom", "equality", "fraternity", these are not just pretty words on the frontons, but precepts that must guide political action in calm times as in the storm. For us, the people – the whole people – is not the problem, but the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u92	You're not the people, you're a very minority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u93	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Where you want to divide, we propose to unite in the mobilization against your authoritarian and antisocial drift and in the construction of the alternative to your delicacy power. We therefore call for the vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u94	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u95	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] New variant, new data: the delta variant has a viral load 1260 times higher than the first strain. But you, ladies and gentlemen, you still offer us the air purifier. The air purifier will not serve anything on the terraces, it will be of no help to us against the delta variant! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group. – Long protests on the benches of the FI group]] In the Senate, we took part in a long CMP to adopt the mechanisms that the situation requires. Obviously, some of the decisions that have been taken have escaped you: the possibility of dismissal in case of absence of a health pass has been removed. For us, no matter what the penalty is, as long as there is a sanction. Without sanction, Madame Obono, 6 million Frenchmen would not have registered on Doctolib for vaccination. Through the health pass, we can protect each other and encourage vaccination. So yes, you can keep screaming and throwing suspicion on the vaccine, but the vaccine saves lives: 96% of infected people did not have a complete vaccination schedule. This applies to France and to all the countries in which the vaccine is available – I would remind you that some countries do not have access to the vaccine. [["Yes! » on the benches of the FI group]] [[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] You think you're the only ones who are attached to freedom. It is now your cardinal value but what do you do about equality, especially equality of access to care? Why can't we be treated for another disease? Are hospitals condemned to take care only of patients with covid until the end of time? No! The CMP marks an agreement between different political forces that stand united against the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u96	It's over, Mrs. Abadie.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u97	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We don't like the current situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u98	I repeat what the other Vice-Presidents and President Ferrand have said: it is a serious time, we do not have to offer a spectacle that is not worthy of what our fellow citizens expect. Let me remind you that this session is televised. Our fellow citizens expect us to have a debate sometimes strong, but in no way unbridled as we have just had a glimpse of it at the moment. I ask you to listen to each other – this is true for the opposition, but also for the majority. In the general debate, Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u99	Your health pass is an authoritarian pass; It will not solve the health crisis, so we are opposed to it. You are trying to impose the terms of the debate by playing out and caricature until insult, still at the moment. To reject the health pass would be to oppose vaccination; To reject the health pass would be to refuse to give ourselves the means to get out of the crisis. That's not true! We are personally in favour of vaccination, we want to get out of the crisis, but here, unlike you, we don't think we'll get out of it by running around. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] Authoritarianism is all you have left today because you have failed throughout the line You didn't anticipate anything, you didn't plan anything, you didn't prepare anything. You let the fourth wave rise by launching the tourist season, while the delta variant was already present on the territory and all observers were alerting, educated by its evolution in neighbouring countries. You have refused all the proposals we have made...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u100	They weren't good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u101	[[Same movements]] ... to organize the deconfinity methodically, to move on to a society of rotation; to provide hospitals and schools with the means they need to cope with the crisis. You kept saying everything and its opposite on the masks, then on the tests, on the vaccines then and now on the sanitary pass. You yourself, Minister, swore, just a month ago, that you were opposed to its generalization. Even today, you do not expect anything for the coming months: nothing to strengthen hospital facilities, for the school year, and much less for the exit of the sanitary pass. How could our fellow citizens still trust you? Since you haven't planned anything and nobody trusts you any more, you are returning to the only thing you know how to do: authoritarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u102	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u103	We reject your way of governing by brutalizing our democratic institutions and our fellow citizens. The President decides on a major restriction of freedoms in the closed and secret chamber of the Defence Council without consulting either the Council of Ministers or Parliament and announcing it on television; parliamentarians are called upon to ratify the monarch's decision within a minute, without even being able to discuss it or amend it, or to be treated as irresponsible; Our fellow citizens are called upon to comply with it, or they will be punished. That is not how we rule in a mature and healthy democracy, but do you still know what a democracy is? We do not want public freedoms to be written off. We oppose the establishment of a permanent control company; a society of control of all by all, because you outsource the responsibility for controls at all levels of society; a society of contradictory rules, with the control of health passes by police officers who are exempt from them; inhuman rules, with the impossibility of visiting his parents in the hospital or in the EHPAD (Ms Caroline Fiat applauds); implausible sanctions, such as suspension of wages for employees who are not yet vaccinated. You sow zizania, you stir up resentment, you plunge our citizens into uncertainty, even though our people need more protection, solidarity, and unity than ever before. And all this for what? For a gas plant that won't even stop the new epidemic wave we're facing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It's not a pass, it's a sanitary pass. You're proposing nothing but a system of control and prohibition. The pass does not guarantee anything: outbreaks of contamination have developed as a result of events whose entry was subject to a sanitary pass. It doesn't work. You do not announce any additional means to speed up vaccination: nothing to convince; nothing to reach the most fragile, elderly or precarious audiences; There is nothing to correct social inequalities in access to care, as the WHO recommends. Worse, the pressure you claim to have inflicted on the French resulted in a rush that you had not even anticipated and disorganized the vaccination. By the time everyone is vaccinated, many of our most vulnerable and modest citizens will have been deprived of social life and the fourth wave will have already taken place. Throughout history, the great crises have awakened among the powers in place the temptation of authoritarianism. They have nurtured the idea that, in the face of urgency, only quick methods are effective – a terrible illusion that you succumb to today. You mislead democracy, you flout public freedoms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u106	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u107	... you divide our country, and all this in the name of a measure of questionable health efficiency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] We do not accept the shift in which you are driving our country. It is not with threats that we convince our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. It is not with authoritarian methods that we will defeat the epidemic. On the contrary, it is through reason and dialogue, intelligence and collective organization, planning and mutual aid, by uniting our people that we will emerge from the crisis, so not from the authoritarian past!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u108	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u109	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u110	In times of crisis, as parliamentarians, we must act responsibly and in a balanced manner; We have to keep our heads cold despite the agitation. As we know, covid-19 is a dangerous virus. We are clearly experiencing a fourth wave and we need to take appropriate measures to protect our citizens and to support our caregivers. We also know that vaccination of the greatest number is the best way to control the pandemic, curb the emergence of new variants and resume normal life. However, it is not forbidden to question the Government's method, which must be the guarantee of harmony, not to mention the fractures that are going through society. You have to convince before you coerce. In particular, this requires an effort of pedagogy and coherence. Have we sufficiently anticipated the vaccination level that was reached in mid-June? Have we adapted the offer accordingly? Two paths would have deserved to be explored earlier: on the one hand, to facilitate the making of appointments at the holiday places; On the other hand, encourage the "go to" approach. In recent weeks, we should have launched more targeted, more pedagogic communication campaigns; The techniques used by vaccines should have been further explained and counter-truths should be avoided. In order to anticipate, it is necessary without delay to develop tools to limit the spread of the virus, especially in enclosed areas: so are our schools, our theatres, our restaurants equipped with air filtration tools? There is a need to set standards, to support the communities and actors concerned, without delay. More broadly, what have you planned to support the professions that will be affected by the introduction of the health pass? Let us come to the enlargement of the health pass. If some members of my group were firmly opposed from the outset, others, of which I am a member, were ready to go along this path with you, given the worsening situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u112	Proportionality, readability for the French, simplicity of application and finally justice, these are our expectations. Where are we? Some of our proposals have been taken up in the Senate and even retained in the text of the CMP. It extends the health crisis management regime until November 15, which is a small step forward from the initial date of December 31, even if we preferred the Senate's drafting. This was in fact more proportionate, establishing a good balance between an adequate response to the pandemic situation and respect for fundamental freedoms, which confirms, if necessary, the importance of bicameralism. Let us also welcome in the final text the removal of the obligation to present a health pass in order to access the shopping malls – we are thinking in particular of those who need to go there to do their basic shopping at a lower cost. The dismissal of employees who did not submit to the obligation to present a health pass was a red line for us. It does not appear in the final text and that is so much better: suspension of the employment contract and cessation of payment of remuneration are already sufficiently restrictive measures. Let us now express our regret at the fact that the Senate version is not maintained in relation to certain points. This is the case for terraces, where controls will be more difficult and the level of contamination remains lower, even though we are well aware of the overvirality of the delta variant. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the risk of falsification of QR codes and fraud. We regret that the health pass is maintained for those over 12 years of age, who have only recently had access to vaccination – and here I will have a thought for those whose youth years will remain marked by this virus. Above all, some still wonder about the very relevance of the sanitary pass, its effectiveness, the risks of overflows during checks. Moreover, the readability of this provision remains highly questionable. It will be required in the TGVs and not in the metro, while the transmission risks are considerably higher: where is the coherence? As for the obligation to vaccinate for healthcare workers and the contact of at-risk audiences, it is supported by a majority of members of my group. The CMP version has allowed for flexibilities that make this obligation proportionate to the risks faced by fragile patients. Finally, with regard to the isolation of contaminated persons, the Senate version seems more reasonable. The CMP kept it in part. We believe that it is necessary to make this isolation effective rather than mandatory, which requires better human accompaniment. [[Mr. Olivier Falorni applauds]] Given the limited number of amendments made by the Senate retained by the CMP, the members of the Liberties and Territories Group will maintain their voting position at first reading: a majority will vote against and others, like me, will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u113	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u114	We come to the end of a surreal week, a symbol of the recurring unpreparation of the executive, which, without giving us time for parliamentary debate, obliges us to decide on measures that are disconnected from the realities on the ground that affect all our fellow citizens. Two months after WHO classified the delta variant as a concern, the President of the Republic announced that a fourth epidemic wave was about to break. It is caught in the trap of his own erratic management that he proclaimed the extension of the health pass, a new denial of this majority who, after having indicated that the health pass would never be used for acts of daily life, changes of opinion and we sum to validate urgently a text that will generate serious tensions in our country – we are already seeing the beginnings. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The text from the CMP does not allow us to change our mind, although we can see that, thanks to the Senate, some common sense has been relaxed. I am thinking in particular of the reduction of the health pass and the control of isolation, now operated by the primary health insurance fund (CPAM) in the first instance. It is without enthusiasm, on the other hand, that we record the replacement of the dismissal by the coldness of the gun gun placed on the temple of the recalcitrant. In conscience, we continue to strongly oppose the generalization of the health pass. We reject your denials, your contradictions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u116	... your brutal methods that fuel the distrust of French and French people against public speech, a mistrust that unfortunately makes today hesitaters tip into the anti-vaccine camp. Your method further undermines the prospect of a successful vaccination campaign in our country. Unlike you, we do not want to divide the French and we believe that it is possible to relaunch the vaccination campaign. This requires a massive deployment of logistical resources on the ground to reach out to people, especially those living in working-class neighbourhoods or in rural areas, which are marked by a high level of neglect. It also implies, Mr Minister, not blocking, as you do, any primary vaccination from 2 August in certain territories for lack of sufficient vaccines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u117	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u118	I have proof of that! Finally, this means strengthening information and explanation campaigns among non-vaccinated audiences. What we propose as a matter of responsibility is an altruistic vision of vaccination, accepted by the greatest number, and not a utilitarian vision, based on the bet of coercion and punishment, where the vaccine would serve only to consume, only to distract, only to travel. Your project leads us to a fractured society of each other, which is absolutely contrary to the ideals of our Social Republic. He leads us to a society where an unvaccinated person will no longer be able to work and be paid because he is staying, and I regret that he is quenched by a vaccination that he does not believe in, or simply because he could not have access to it on time. It leads us to a society where a person will be put into isolation by force without taking into account the terrible social realities experienced by a part of the population. Of course, the seriousness of the unprecedented health crisis we are going through is a matter of great concern, as is everyone else. However, the urgency of the situation does not exempt us from imposing safeguards and guarantees that respect our rule of law. However, at every stage, as the Defender of Rights points out, you have regularly bypassed them or even annihilated them. As for the attitude of the Government and the majority during the debates, it merely confirms the liberticides of a power that is so afraid of the noise of others that it only listens to itself. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is always the subject of research, tension and conviction to ensure that social constraints are accepted as progress and not as a weakening of democracy. That is why we reject your health pass, police measure and social control tool. In our view, this bill is more counterproductive than effective in generalizing vaccination, because it dissuades rather than convinces. Vaccination cannot be an act of freedom: it must be conceived as an instrument made available to citizens by the public authorities to guarantee the public interest and to preserve each of the ill-treatments of the disease. To get out of the health crisis and avoid a new containment, a source of terrible devastation for our children and for the most fragile of us, must be its sole objective. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner and Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon also applaud]] In a few words, we prefer a vaccination that includes rather than a sanitary pass that excludes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u119	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u120	At the end of the Joint Joint Committee meeting, a journalist asked me the first question: "Is the agreement reached a victory of the Senate over the National Assembly? " Funny design, revealing at the bottom of the period we are living, an era of distrust and suspicion. This agreement which we are going to adopt in a few moments, I am sure, cannot at any time be regarded as the result of the victory of one institution over another, of one political group or of one party over another. It's just the opposite. This agreement is first of all the sharing of a finding: today we are still in the health crisis with this fourth wave. We have to deal with a particularly aggressive virus: within a week, positive cases increased by 233%, hospitalizations by 48% and admissions to resuscitation by 79%. And this trend will grow in the coming weeks. This agreement is then the sharing of a responsibility, that of acting quickly. Of course, each and every one of us is consumed by questions and concerns. We have doubts much more than certainties. We have no pleasure in discussing the measures we must take to protect our fellow citizens and allow life to continue. With our honourable senators, in our discussions in the CMP, there was no question at any time of victory from one side to the other. The spirit of responsibility and the ability to listen have led us to build an agreement that, we hope, will be right and will enable us to meet a threefold objective: to curb the epidemic, to accelerate the vaccination campaign, to allow life to continue. The exchanges have been harsh and difficult, I do not hide it from you, but always respectful and responsible. They have enabled us to find a consensus, a balance, which best respects the will of both chambers. We have thus extended the regime of exit from the health crisis until November 15, 2021, extended the health pass to leisure, culture and catering activities, provided for its application for indoor spaces as well as for outdoor spaces, as well as for shopping centres, without affecting access to essential shops – we will validate this last point after the Senate, which did so earlier, even though it has sparked debate throughout the evening. The discussions were particularly lively with regard to minors. It was decided that they would only be subject to the scheme from 30 September, only to facilitate their access to vaccination, the agreement of only one parent would now be sufficient for 12-15 year olds and that it would be up to the 16-year-olds to choose whether or not to be vaccinated independently. This agreement has led us to strengthen and, we hope, to make effective the compulsory placement scheme in isolation of those tested positive. The latter will be monitored by the CPAM officers, and by the police if necessary. We have also validated the implementation of the vaccination obligation for caregivers. We have selected a transitional arrangement, proposed by the senators, that will apply from September 15 to October 15 for those who have agreed to return to a vaccination route before September 15 and who will be presenting a negative test. Driven by the fierce will to reach an agreement, we agreed after hard discussions to abandon the idea of recourse to redundancies...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u121	It's good for you to present things like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u122	... to retain the idea of suspension of the employment contract and payment of wages for staff who do not present a health pass at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u123	How kind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u124	We will probably have to discuss these measures again, because the ones we proposed were certainly more protective. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] That is the agreement that we have reached and that the Group of the European People's Party will adopt this evening. It is neither a victory nor a defeat, it is above all a shared responsibility, a courageous responsibility that we must shoulder collectively for all French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u125	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u126	In the face of the crisis, it is obviously necessary to act. As we said earlier, the house is burning and it is not about looking elsewhere. The delta variant concerns us – not to say the variants, because some are already well present. They may lead us, in the weeks and months ahead, to meet again, sometimes under the pressure of events. For our part, we prefer to anticipate and plan regular cycles of exchanges and debates in Parliament. In the meantime, we are finishing tonight a very special week – and what a week! Made of white nights, suspensions of sittings in suspension of sittings, until the lag last night, this morning, this afternoon, and almost this evening of the Joint Joint Committee meeting. Called at 3 p.m., it finally meets at 4:20 p.m. to be immediately suspended, then resume at 7 p.m. and finally meet us at about 7 p.m. An agreement was found rather laboriously, immediately called into question at the resumption of the Senate's proceedings, with an unfeigned astonishment, by the Minister of Solidarity and Health who removed from the hat a government amendment returning to the afternoon agreement – which had yet been arbitrated by Matignon. Comprehensive who can! This is not the first time, and it is provided for in the Constitution, but it can disrupt the understanding of events and agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u127	You will be able to vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u128	This agreement has led to several important improvements, which must be stressed. November 15 will now mark the end of the mechanism that we will be voting on this evening – at least some of us. The date of 15 November corresponds very little to the one which was requested through several amendments from the various benches of our House. We wanted a return to Parliament on a regular basis, thanks to a re-visit clause. It would have been necessary to wait for the compulsion, the negotiation of the Joint Joint Committee to be heard. Should we wait until then? I don't think so, but let us note this progress and bear in mind that we will be back in a few long weeks, shortly after the start of the school year. The system of the health pass has also been partially revised: it provides for more administrative controls and less criminal controls; the minors will only be concerned from 30 September – even if several of us regret that they were kept in the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u129	You will be able to vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u130	There is still the question of its application in trains, for which we have not solved the problem of short and long distances. We feel that we have created a gas factory and that the glass is half empty, half full; I would not like to be referred to the figure as my normanditude and my "maybe yes, perhaps not," but on many aspects, this bill is like a half-empty, half-full glass. We note with interest the improvements in isolation, now better taken into account with controls carried out by CPAM officers rather than by police officers or gendarmes who, it is admitted, have better to do than to come knocking on the door brave people, even sick, until twenty-three o'clock in the evening. The failure to comply with the vaccination obligation will, fortunately, not result in the dismissal of the personnel concerned. Several of us had opposed it. But the scheme provides for suspensions of the employment contract for several weeks or even months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u131	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u132	...meaning suspensions of salary or salary. How will the families concerned live under these conditions? A beneficial effect of the text concerns minors, who may be vaccinated from the age of 16 years with their sole consent and not that of their parents. There is progress here. We need to get the message out of the vaccination. But all this rests first and foremost on trust, and we are not sure that confidence in public speech is complete. We must firmly recall the sense of individual responsibility. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] In conclusion, we are led to reconcile security and freedom. For some of us, the point is: the balance is pretty much assured, the bill goes in a more positive direction; For others, this is not the case. This will explain a differentiated vote among the members of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u133	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u134	Everyone has understood that we are facing an out-of-standard pandemic. I have looked, Minister, at the history of pandemics in the world: it is the eleventh, the most deadly we have known since the sixth century. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional means are required. Everyone remembers the black plague and its 25 million deaths, the Spanish flu, cholera or smallpox. We must take into account all the uncertainties regarding this multiform virus, whose evolutions we have not finished. It was necessary to act quickly and forcefully, to act coherently and to allow democratic control by Parliament. This has been reflected, as previous speakers have pointed out, in the meeting of a Joint Joint Committee at which I have had the honour of attending and at the end of which, I say very simply, there are neither winners nor losers. The essential exercise, which we must conduct together, was to protect our fellow citizens: I want to point out that the foreign vaccines that honourable senators wanted to recognize were eventually discarded, or that we accepted some important provisions proposed by honourable senators, such as those relating to adolescents, or the abandonment of dismissal measures. This also means that the Government has made efforts to understand the outcome of this evening. Acting hard, it goes through vaccination. A few weeks ago, the debate was whether compulsory vaccination should not be considered. Today, we see that it would be desired by everyone. But it must be remembered that we were leaving from a very far distance and that confidence has been established over time: recently, we were only talking about the misdeeds of vaccines; From now on, we praise the benefits. The health pass is perceived by some as a means of deprivation of liberty; It may indeed appear as such and the device had some inconsistencies. However, the health pass will instead be the pass of freedom, because it will not allow us to return to a completely normal life, but in any case to live almost as before, to go to the restaurant, to go out, to see our family or our friends. Acting hard, acting fast, acting also by ensuring that understanding – I insist on this point – is at the rendezvous. The whole tragedy of the measures we have been taking over the past 18 months is sometimes an incomprehension. Faced with the antivax and all those who surf the difficulties we face in the arsenal used to fight the pandemic, the situation requires us to live up to the challenges. The provisions introduced in favour of adolescents were advances: in the same family, the children of 9 and 13 years of age were treated differently. Let us mention again the gauge of the fifty, which appeared incomprehensible to each other and to the others; these cafes, restaurants that had to apply a different protocol depending on whether the customer was outside or inside; These large areas, on which, Minister, solutions will be found on the ground, with the prefects, so that the measure is finally understandable. Rather, all these provisions go in the right direction to me, even if they may appear – useless to say otherwise – as deprivation of liberty. This text has improved over time, I would like to say, because you have been able to listen; Members The Republicans who were present this afternoon will not be able to say the opposite, nor the others. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are very much committed to parliamentary scrutiny: you have accepted that instead of 31 December, it should be moved forward to 15 November, with the organisation of a debate. At the last minute of the Joint Joint Committee meeting, I even spoke to remind you that you had agreed, Mr Minister, to come and explain the state of the health situation and the measures taken to combat the pandemic effectively. Everyone has understood that this control of the state of emergency on 15 November means the end of the health pass – which must be a parenthesis, since, as the president of the Law Commission rightly pointed out, it can be felt as a deprivation of liberty. As far as the future is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you with great humility: there are those who know, those who explain everything to us – Mr Mélenchon was trying earlier to send us a message which, obviously, was next to the plaque – and there are those who show humility, because who knows where we will be in a few weeks' time? [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mr Meyer Habib also applauds]] It was necessary to act quickly and to hit hard in view of this rate of impact, which is about to explode in coastal cities, of these hospital beds, which unfortunately will be occupied in a few weeks' time. By vaccinating the medical community to whom we owe so much, this fabulous and generous community that has given us so much, we will protect it, because it was not. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote for this text, which contains a state of emergency. It will vote on its provisions with the requirement of parliamentary scrutiny that the re-visit clause allows and only one imperative in mind: it is the spirit of responsibility that inspires us, the responsibility to protect the French, to bring us together, all political sensitivities combined. The essential thing is at stake: the union must be done in such a way as to be effective and finally eradicate this pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u135	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u136	[["Yes! On a few benches of the SOC and GDR groups. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The text of the Joint Joint Committee bears witness to a reality: it is the Senate that is making parliamentary democracy live today. In any case, it is he who succeeds in correcting the governmental position which the majority of the National Assembly is reluctant to amend. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] As part of tonight's debate, I would therefore like to welcome the progress made by the Senate, the majority and the Senate opposition combined. The Senate has forced you to refuse to give a blank cheque to the Government: beyond 15 November, the application of the health pass cannot therefore continue without a new vote by Parliament. Penalties for institutions that do not control the detention of the health pass become administrative, not criminal, as provided for by the Government and its majority. A restaurant that does not control the justification of its customers would thus be subject to administrative closure, the criminal penalty applying only in the event of repeated breaches. With regard to compulsory vaccination of caregivers, the Senate has removed the dismissals you were considering for CDIs, replacing them with a suspension of the employment contract, which means that the person concerned will not receive any remuneration. The Joint Joint Committee retained the vaccination of unaccompanied minors proposed by my colleague Lamia El Aaraje. The Senate has also opened the possibility for young people between the ages of 16 and 18 to be vaccinated without parental permission. Finally, it has allowed our fellow citizens who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons to live without being forced to do so, as proof of contraindication to the vaccine acts as a health pass. However, these advances are insufficient and we will not vote for this text. We are aware that the health situation is critical, with the spread of the delta variant in the country. But the only effective response in our eyes is universal vaccination. That is why the Members of my group, as well as the Senators of the Socialist, Ecologist and Republican Group, voted in favour of compulsory vaccination for all adults, in an organized manner, for primary health insurance funds to contact without delay all those who are not yet vaccinated, starting with those over 50 years old, then those between 40 and 50 years old, and so on. Making vaccination compulsory for all adults is a clear and uniform rule: everyone is housed in the same sign. Instead, you have preferred to invent the sanitary pass, of which no one really understands the rules as they fluctuate over time – not even the Government, which has tabled an amendment after the Joint Joint Committee to make possible the requirement of this famous proof in the malls. Proceeding like this is still very, very rare.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u137	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u138	This reflects both the degree of unpreparedness of the Government and the small number of cases it makes of Parliament. With the sanitary pass, you divide the French: there are those who will be able to go to the restaurant and those who, having started their vaccination procedure late, will be returned to some establishments even if they have received a first injection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u139	And how do you intend to stop the epidemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u140	This breakup is dangerous for the unity of the country. The approach we have proposed to you is inclusive, yours excludes. Beyond the difference in approach, your health pass poses two important problems, even after the Joint Committee's progress. The first concerns the availability of niches for vaccination. Indeed, how can you imagine punishing French people who would not be vaccinated if you are not able to offer them vaccination slots allowing them to do so in time? We have been many on all the benches of this House to ask you about the number of doses available. Several of us have even demonstrated live in the Chamber, by connecting to the Doctolib site, that there are no more places available for vaccination. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] I tried again tonight, before entering the Chamber, to make an appointment for a first dose of vaccine in Montauban, in my constituency. Here's the message: "No appointments are available at this time." On this point, you have not given us a precise answer. The other major point of disagreement is that of the control of the sanitary pass that you impose on the restaurateurs, the coffee makers, the volunteers who organize demonstrations. You try to make up this reality by indicating in the text that the checks can only be carried out by authorized persons. One might think that "authorized persons" mean police or gendarmes, but not at all! The authorized people you are considering are the servers of restaurants or cafes, it can be you or me if we organize a demonstration, mayors, local elected officials for all the events organized in the communes. Thus, you place on employees, volunteers and elected officials, whose mission is not, the responsibility to control sanitary passes, with penalties to the key in case of non-implementation. [[Applause on several SOC and GDR benches]] Finally, the health pass still creates a false sense of freedom and security, as we have seen with the clusters that are developing here or there even when the health pass checks were carried out at the entrance. For all these reasons, we will not vote for the text of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u141	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u142	Martinique: 793; Pyrénées-Orientales : 492; Upper Corsica: 452; Alpes-Maritimes : 314 ; Deauville: 800. No, these figures are not the projection of a fourth wave for the re-entry, but the reality of a fourth wave already well present in the national territory. Indeed, today's question is not how to avoid this new wave, but how to fight it forcefully, how to stop it and without further delay. Every hour, every minute that passes, an individual carrying covid-19 can emit a lot of contagious droplets, if only by talking. This is the reality of the delta variant. And at this speed, I dare not imagine the danger of the next variant. Yes, so here we are on this Sunday to find the right balance between protecting and "fucking the French", to take the words of Georges Pompidou. Yes, because installing a sanitary pass is no pleasure to anyone, and no one here is happy to have to do it. Of course, we would all like to go into carefreeness, as we go on vacation, postpone the problems and constraints until next year, thinking: we will see well at that time, until then enjoy! But it is not a matter of profiting, but rather of consuming, consuming lives and hope for all to return to a normal life, at least the one we loved so much. Then, in the aftermath of the demonstrations, we must respond to the French who, rightly, are attached to their freedom, that the text we are voting today and which is the subject of a consensus between their representatives, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, comes precisely to protect this freedom, and that yes, the triptych "freedom, equality, fraternity" always makes sense in our beautiful nation. Freedom first. What value and interest should be given to her when she submits to the contribution of the uncertain futures? Before I became a member of Parliament, I was a citizen and a mother. I take no pleasure in restricting our access or that of our children to the presentation of a vaccination or a negative test, but I also know that this is the only condition that this access does not prove to be the last to be at a bar, restaurant, cinema or any place of leisure – both for the consumer, to whom we must say that he enters safely, but also for the restaurant or organizer, to whom we do not want to say that he will have to close tomorrow or worse, that a cluster has developed at home. Because yes, the sanitary pass is safety, but also visibility. Let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen: it is the virus that is liberticide. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would also like to welcome the common sense measures that we have been defending for several months in this House and with the French, starting with the compulsory isolation of people affected by covid-19. When common sense is no longer enough, there is no other way to protect the sick and those they encounter or cross on a daily basis. It is not to reject them, but on the contrary to consider them and accompany them, from food races to family chores and accommodation, because it is the vocation of a solidarity society. Yes, that's the sense of fraternity. Equality next. What is equality, except that it is a State that gives all its citizens equal and free access to care, testing and vaccines, which, in good intelligence with the territories, ensures that there is no scapegoat, no fingering, no discrimination or forgotten? This right to the vaccine is a chance, a chance that not all people on this planet have. In that regard, he welcomed the Government's efforts to date to deliver more than one million doses in Tunisia. I myself, an actress in the world of health, know that I do not only have a profession, a passion, but also a responsibility: to protect and care for people. All liability shall be accompanied by duties. That is why we support the compulsory vaccination of health-care workers and all health-care actors, without distinction. Of course, this obligation must be imposed with calm and discernment. The price of our freedom is our responsibility, making the vaccine a duty. I will end my remarks with a message to the silent majority, the one who is being vaccinated or being vaccinated, the one who was not yesterday on the street with slogans and images at best false, at worst to vomit – yes, to vomit – the one who has lived and suffered several waves, several constraints, several instructions without necessarily always understanding them, the one that does not feed on reading, sharing and amplification of false and dangerous information on social networks, the one that leads in our hospitals, but not only, the most beautiful fight, the one for life. I mean to this silent majority that even without exclamations, we hear, that we thank her for all her efforts, that we will not abandon her and that it is even for her that we are here today. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we ask the French to be responsible. So tonight, we Members of Parliament are responsible and we are voting on this text from the parliamentary work with our fellow senators, even though it has been difficult. This text we will be voting on tonight is balanced; the Action Group will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u143	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u144	Members of the IDU and independent group have a very mixed feeling at the end of our debates and when we decide on the text of the Joint Joint Committee. This mixed feeling will explain the disparity in the votes that will take place after the last speeches, and in particular mine. First, there is the positive feeling that measures such as the health pass, of which we were promoters at the time when you and your majority were opposed in principle, and the vaccination obligation of health professionals are all measures that will try – and we hope will succeed – to curb the fourth wave that is there as quickly as possible. No one can deny that this fourth wave will not arrive in a month or a month and a half, but that it is indeed present on all our coasts, especially in the tourist places that our fellow citizens frequent during their holidays. This positive feeling means that many of our fellow citizens are seeking vaccination, but they cannot do so immediately – there are many examples of vaccination centres that cannot accommodate all applications.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u145	Several weeks of waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u146	It will again take the full mobilization of local and regional authorities to make this August vaccination a success. We hope that this will be the case. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] But there is also a much more unpleasant feeling that our parliamentary debates have been held in unsustainable conditions. Of course, there have been sixty hours of debate here and in the Senate, but under what conditions? How could you, Minister, the Government, your majority have imagined that on such sensitive measures, as brutal for some and restrictive of individual and collective freedoms, there would be only a few dozen amendments that could be discussed first in committee and then in the Chamber in a few hours?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u148	This was not possible, and following the announcements of the President of the Republic, it would have been necessary to plan, programme and take time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u149	Demonstration of incompetence! Or disrespect!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u150	This time "lost" in a calmer, more serene debate would have been won by our fellow citizens, who need to understand, need confidence to adhere to these measures. We regret very much that this text is going through forceps and that the debates continued in both assemblies very late at night. Our fellow citizens are watching us; They do not understand why such important measures are taken at five o'clock in the morning when, by force of events, there are fewer Members present than at the usual sitting hours of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u151	Inexplicable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u152	The UDI and independent Group regrets the nature of the debates, because it is the parliamentary debate that comes with the confidence of our fellow citizens, including with regard to measures whose implementation is complicated. Nevertheless, we welcome the fact that the Joint Joint Committee has been able to adopt a slightly more intelligible text, particularly with regard to the implementation of the health pass, and that dismissal...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u153	It's starvation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u154	...is not the ultimate sanction for a healthcare professional who would not want to be vaccinated immediately. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] I hope that the implementation of these measures in the coming days will allow our fellow citizens to be reassured about the evolution of the epidemic, and that the spirit of responsibility that we share will encourage more and more people to be vaccinated. It is this general level of vaccination that will allow the epidemic to be behind us tomorrow. We all hope that, and above all, we do not have to see each other again, even if we had wished Parliament to be seized as soon as possible, as early as September, because we could not have stopped the epidemic that is proliferating.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u155	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u156	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendment before me and then on the text. On Amendment No 1, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the groups La République en marche, Les Républicains, Mouvement Démocratique (MODEM) et Démocrates Allied, IDU et Indépendants, La France insoumise, Libertés et Territoires and the Left Démocratique et Républice of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u157	Mr President, I ask for the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u158	Mr Bernalicis, you will speak once the minister has spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u159	This amendment follows the debate in both the National Assembly and the Senate on the issue of major shopping centres. The amendment, which was adopted in the Senate, proposes that the prefect should have the power to set up the health pass in some very large shopping malls whose criteria are defined by decree – in the debates, there was talk of an area of at least 20,000 square meters – inasmuch as viral circulation in the department concerned would require the introduction of additional measures – to be even more concrete, if we were faced with a situation where, without being able to apply the health pass in the major shopping malls, we might be forced to ask for either very strict gauges, as has been the case for some waves, or the closure of the said shopping malls. The amendment makes it clear that under no circumstances could the consumer's ability to access essential goods be undermined. Similarly, under no circumstances could there be any question of hindering the movement of transport – I am thinking in particular of the shopping centres where RER trains are opening up, to name but a few. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] The measure is therefore very framed, with parsimonous use by the prefect's hand, if the situation were to require it. Thus, I believe that the Government has drawn the consequences of the many parliamentary debates that have been provided on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u161	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u162	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, since this single amendment has given rise to debate, I will give the floor, for those who wish, to one speaker per group, asking them to limit their expression to one minute. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u163	This amendment is better than if it were worse – especially compared to the original wording. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Nevertheless, what is the reality? You said to yourself that in France, there are poor people – far too many, I confirm – who do not go to the restaurant, to the theatre or to the cinema, in short in all the places where you impose the sanitary pass. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group. – Live exclamations on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, there is a place where they go, and it is perhaps through this way that they will be forced to immunize: shopping centres. You yourself said it in committee, since we pointed it out and you assumed it – a pity you didn't accept it at this time. That's one more reason to tell you that no, it's not the right strategy. The right strategy is to convince, not coerce. What policy have you implemented in departments where the vaccination card overlaps with the income inequality card? What did you do? Nothing! You can only do one thing: brandish the baton and control. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] This is what characterizes your government and your policy; In the end, you can't do it. That is why our position will remain full and complete on this amendment, as well as on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u164	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u165	I do not fully welcome the fact that the CMP has been concluded: we would have had everything to gain from having more time to explain to you that it is not normal to foresee a suspension of wages to make the threat to poverty; Similarly, we would have gained more time to stress that in this text, a case of dismissal is still foreseen in respect of fixed-term contracts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u166	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u167	...i.e. those to which the most precarious benefit; Finally, we would have gained more time to debate to tell you that it was not normal to provide for the control by the law enforcement agencies of our patients at home. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Minister, when MPs and senators agree on a text on the occasion of a concluding CMP, the least we can do is to respect the outcome and not present an amendment to the position that was found in the CMP. That is why I will oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u168	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u169	Minister, this amendment is symptomatic of the illness and isolation of the Government in managing the crisis, of this will to do everything alone, without all the forces that are gathered here and which, however, since March 2020, seek to help you and build with you the acceptance of difficult measures. It's our role, but every time, you've turned it down to us. Constantly, we have proposed to meet again to debate without being at the foot of the wall and without health requirements, at a regular intervals that are necessary for democracy. Every time, you turned it down. As a result, we find ourselves again this week in working conditions marked by haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u170	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u171	[[Applause on several benches of the LR and FI groups]] This has led to the convening of a CMP that has been moved three times and that has met three hours after the beginning of the meeting that you have led to an agreement. At the end of the day, you can see that all this has been miswritten and you are submitting an amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u172	Thank you, Mr. Schellenberger. Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u173	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR and FI groups. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Ms Caroline Fiat exclaimed]] Dear colleague, the agreement was not led by the Minister or the Government. It was built between senators and MPs; It's a reality, it took time for everyone to take one step towards the other. I understand that it bothers you on the benches of the Republicans: in the face of a responsible Senate, the Republicans are irresponsible. That's the reality! [[Same movement]] As far as shopping centres are concerned, the question we are asking ourselves about all the measures we are taking...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u174	We're listening to Mr. Gouffier-Cha.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u175	... is whether or not the virus is spreading in different places. Can the virus spread through malls? Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u176	What about the subway, what about the RER?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u177	Therefore, we need to put in place an adequate mechanism for shopping centres, while of course excluding access to essential services – food goods or pharmacies. We have worked with the senators...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u178	Mr. Gouffier-Cha, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u179	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... and indeed, there has been in a way a small glitch, which is corrected by this amendment. The latter was adopted earlier by the senators, and it will be adopted in a few moments by the members of the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u180	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u181	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] In order for everyone to be informed of the way things have happened, it is true that we have waited two hours and fifty-two minutes for a number of colleagues from the CMP to meet together so that the CMP can finally meet itself. Indeed, we were told that they were waiting for arbitration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u182	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u183	I don't know where these arbitrations came from, but that's what happened. Now you come back with an amendment that corrects the copy of the CMP. It is a bit surprising that the Government is going behind us and that we are coming, in a way, once again, to submit to the intentions of the Government, which, which were widely discussed and debated, had already been the subject of a number of objections. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I still do not understand how this provision will be clearly implemented. We are told that it is very framed; I don't see how or how. In truth, all this is of variable geometry and constitutes a new measure of extension of the health pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u184	At least people will know the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u185	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u186	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] On the issue of shopping malls, I do not agree at all with what Mr Gouffier-Cha said. In rereading the notes I took during the CMP, it had been made clear that with regard to shopping malls, it would be the position of the Senate that would be retained – obviously, it is not the position contained in the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u187	Damn it, it's still squeaky!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u188	You have to be honest, a CMP serves as a minimum to put disagreements on the table. We cannot say that the position of the Senate is retained and, two hours later, discover an amendment by the Government that changes that position. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC, LR and FI groups. – Alain Bruneel also applauds]] As far as its drafting is concerned, the Government's amendment again leaves a great deal of latitude, since the measure will be taken by decision of the State representative and therefore of the Prefect. At a minimum, you could have planned a consultation with local elected officials. Perhaps we can table a sub-amendment to that effect, minister. During the first waves, many questions arose about the shops and local elected officials were never associated...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u189	The elected representatives have been consulted!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u190	... and you're doing it again – I'm just reading the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u191	We must conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u192	[[Applause on several SOC benches. – Exclaims on the banks of the Dem Group]] Minister, I invite you to involve the local elected representatives and write it clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u193	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor. Mr. Millienne, at least try to listen to Mr. Vigier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u194	Some were moved by the fact that we waited before the CMP; That's right, but I'd rather wait three hours for the cases to be settled before rather than spending ten hours in the CMP. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group. – E xclamations on the benches of the FI group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u195	Congratulations, parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u196	It is a question of efficiency: we have nevertheless achieved the result. I'm not going to say otherwise, things have happened this way. With Senators The Republicans, who are the majority in the Senate, we have found ways and means to reach an agreement, each making concessions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] On the other hand, when the Government's amendment was presented earlier in the Senate, I listened carefully to the arguments of the rapporteur Philippe Bas and I agreed with his idea of giving the prefects tomorrow the power, if necessary, to put in place a health pass in case of proven risk. As we are all committed to the territories and the territorial fact, how can we move that a decision be taken on the ground and not in Paris? For all these reasons, we will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u197	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u198	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 230 Number of votes cast 215 Absolute majority 108 For adoption 153 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u199	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u200	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 230 Number of votes cast 216 Absolute majority 109 For adoption 156 Against 60
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u201	Mr. President was informed by Ms. Clémentine Autain that she was resigning as Secretary of the National Assembly as of September 1, 2021. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] The chairman of the La France insoumée group indicated that it would be replaced from the same date by Mr Alexis Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-25-E1020.u202	The President of the National Assembly received from the Prime Minister communication of the decree of the President of the Republic closing the extraordinary session. Accordingly, the closure of the special session is noted. The meeting is adjourned.
