ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u1	The next item is the 2022 public finance policy debate. The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u2	I am pleased to meet you this morning for the 2022 public finance policy debate. What is the economic situation in France? Our economy is recovering quickly and powerfully. This is the result of the unprecedented protective measures we have adopted. They have helped to avoid massive bankruptcies and to protect the jobs and qualifications of the French. It is also the result of the very rapid deployment of the EUR 100 billion recovery plan that you adopted almost a year ago, which supports activity and employment. By the end of June, €40 billion in France's recovery has already been mobilised, and we are targeting €70 billion by the end of the year. These measures have been effective – the figures are clear: the purchasing power of the French has been protected, it has even progressed despite the most serious crisis since 1929; business bankruptcies were avoided: 29000 defaults were registered in one year, at the end of May, compared with 50000 in normal times; the explosion of unemployment predicted by many forecasters did not take place: it stood at 8.1% in the first quarter of 2021, the same level as at the end of 2019 – it is still too much, but it is not the wave announced; consumption rebounded fast and strong: in the week of the beginning of the balances, credit card spending in clothing and textiles exceeded their 2019 level by 50%. All these favourable indications lead us to improve our growth forecast for 2021 to 6%. This forecast is close to those of INSEE, the European Commission and the Bank of France. French growth will thus be one of the strongest of European nations. As I say very seriously in this forum, growth depends directly on our collective mobilization against the virus and on the massive deployment of vaccination. Since the beginning of the crisis, the French have shown an extraordinary civic sense, which we can salute and which are illustrated by the hundreds of thousands of vaccination appointments. The acceleration of the vaccination campaign and the introduction of the health pass will enable us to achieve our growth goal. Vaccination is safety; vaccination is growth; Immunisation is the job. On the basis of these figures, what is the Government's strategy? It has three points: to protect, to revive and to invest. Investment must be the key word of the French economy for decades to come. It is thanks to him that we will remain one of the great economic nations of the twenty-first century. It will guarantee our independence on critical technologies – artificial intelligence, digital technology, quantum technology, renewable energy. It will offer our children and grandchildren a better level of training and skills, in order to finally get out of the mass unemployment that has so penalized our country. It will ensure our standard of living. It will preserve France's place among the world's great nations. Protection was provided throughout the crisis. We have taken the decision to step out of general aid to set up targeted support for those who are in real difficulty. We have moved from "whatever it costs" to tailor-made for the most difficult sectors. This philosophy remains fully relevant at a time when we are instaurating the health pass. I had the opportunity to tell the representatives of the sectors – large distribution, commerce, cafes, restaurants – that I met: let's not assume that the health pass will mechanically result in a decline in activity. On the contrary, I believe that it is the best guarantee for the maintenance of the business and the best safety that we can provide to the consumer. We will take stock at the end of August of the development of aid – I have committed myself to it, I will speak – and we will then determine whether this aid has been well adapted to the new economic context and to the introduction of the health pass and whether sectors suffer more than others – some are experiencing a more difficult recovery overall: tourism, transport, events; In industry, the automotive sector has not yet regained its pre-crisis level of activity; the same is true for air transport – I will be in Toulouse this evening to meet the actors in the aviation sector and to take stock of the situation. The second point of the strategy is to further accelerate the roll-out of the recovery. The recovery is there, it is visible throughout France, it works. At the request of Members, we will continue to improve the implementation of the recovery in the territories so that everyone can benefit from it: the smallest rural communes must have access to the projects of France Recovery. The recovery plan unfolds well, fast and strong. We can count on the support of European funds: in the coming weeks we will receive a first payment of EUR 5.1 billion. In the budget for 2022, we planned to spend more money on measures that work best and deliver immediate results in the priority areas of environment and youth employment. With regard to MaPrimeRénov', more than 380,000 households applied for the renovation of their homes in the first half of the year 2021 – twice the number of applications for the whole year 2020. So we decided, Olivier Dussopt and I, to add 2 billion euros in 2022 to continue this dynamic. With Barbara Pompili, we will ensure the environmental effectiveness of this measure – we will be able to discuss it together. Rather than one-off actions, we will eventually need to focus on global renovations, with greater energy efficiency. With regard to support for young people, we have extended apprenticeship grants until the end of the year, which are exceptionally successful: more than 600,000 bonuses have been paid since August 2020. In the budget for 2022, we decided to invest more in supporting young people towards employment, which is a priority of the exit from the crisis. We will devote the necessary resources to the income of commitment announced by the President of the Republic, the modalities of which will be specified at the beginning of the year. To do more for those who have less, to leave no young person without a solution, to accompany more those who have no diploma, no qualification, is the meaning of the income of commitment. We do not want rights without duties, but on the contrary, there can be no duty to seek employment without the right to personalized and effective support. That's the sense of commitment income. The third point, which must be at the heart of France's economic strategy for the coming decades, is investment. France's presence among the great economic nations is not an achievement: it is a struggle, and it is carried out through investment. In the France Recovery Plan, we chose the investment, but also the acceleration of the fight against global warming and the decarbonisation of our economy. We have chosen to invest in new technologies, because the 21st century will be marked by fierce competition between the major continents over access and control of new technologies. While China and the United States have entered the competition, Europe must play its card and give itself the means to gain independent access to world-class semiconductors, to the production of decarbonated hydrogen, to the best standards of artificial intelligence or to space. The choice of investment will also strengthen our potential growth by strengthening our position in the sectors that will provide tomorrow's activity and employment. France cannot be satisfied with three or four areas of excellence that have been the same for thirty years – they are our pride, but they are not enough. Our country must not fall asleep on its laurels, thinking that growth, activity, jobs and export capacity will be based ad vitam aeternam on luxury, aeronautics, the agri-food or pharmaceutical industry. We need to develop new value chains; We need to recreate value in France through new sectors, new value chains, new technologies for which we already have competitive advantages: I am thinking of nuclear power, semiconductors, biotechnology or hydrogen. International institutions – the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) – also recommend investing to increase our future growth. The European rules allow us to do so, since the clause derogating from the Stability Pact was renewed until the end of 2022. In addition, we have the well-known programmes of European collective interest which allow us to derogate from the rules on state aid. Let us not be mistaken: the race for technological investment takes place between China, the United States and Europe, but it also takes place within European borders and between European nations. France cannot be allowed to distance itself. I say this with great force: for investment in new technologies, we must favour in Europe an approach of cooperation rather than competition. We need to gather our forces rather than disperse them. We must avoid investing in exactly the same technologies, in the same factories. We must be able to allocate our investments so that the union of European nations can make our technological power in the 21st century. For example, we have done so for electric batteries by concluding a cooperation agreement with Germany and by presenting a proposal for the Automotive Cells Company (ACC) within the framework of the European Battery Alliance. We also did it for the cloud. We also need to do this for hydrogen and semiconductors. If not, companies will play this investment race and competition between Member States to obtain the best public support, to the detriment of the general interest. This choice for investment will lead me to propose to the President of the Republic, by the end of July, an investment plan that could be presented at the beginning of the year. This will be based on three criteria. The first is selectivity: neither powdering nor scattering. We need to focus our efforts on certain sectors targeted according to our existing industrial strengths, our qualifications and the dynamism of the market: digital, semiconductors, hydrogen, of course also nuclear, which is part of France's comparative advantages, which allows us to decarbonize quickly our economy, which gives us access to carbon-free electricity at an acceptable cost. Yes, nuclear must also be part of these future investments. The red line we must not cross is that of the dispersion of our means. The power line is the decarbonization of our economy. It will allow us to make this selectivity between the investments of the future: they must serve the accelerated decarbonation of the French economy. The second criterion is coordination, on which I stress again. The choices we make at national level must be coordinated with our European partners, in particular with Germany. I have regular, almost daily contacts with the German Minister of Economy to ensure that this coordination is carried out in all sectors, including the space sector, for which I hope we will be able to present a Franco-German agreement within a few days. The third criterion is training. Investing in physical capital is not enough, it is also necessary to invest in the skills that will be essential for the future sectors, for the ecological transition and for digitalisation. One of the only current obstacles to accelerating growth is, as you know, access to the skills and training we lack in France and which lead to labour shortages in certain sectors and activities. To these choices of protection, revival and investment are obviously added the operating expenses of the ministries, on which we worked night and day with Olivier Dussopt, whom I thank for his commitment and his immense professionalism. Together with the Prime Minister, we have focused on spending at the heart of the State's missions: armies, justice, police, education and research. Half of these new expenditures are the results of programming laws, hence investment laws in the state's regal activities – military programming law 2019-2025, programming law 2018-2022 and justice reform, research programming law 2021-2030. The other half corresponds to support costs related to the crisis: calls for guarantees for the State-guaranteed loan (GLP), emergency accommodation or extension of the university ticket-restaurant to 1 euro. In total, we will increase the state's resources by EUR 10.8 billion for 2022, an increase similar to that of 2021. With regard to 2021, with Olivier Dussopt, we refuse to devote all the additional tax revenues linked to the 6% growth to the increase in public expenditure. There is no cash pool when public debt exceeds 100% of GDP. This allows us to contain the public deficit for 2021 at less than 9%, compared with 9.4% provided for in the Financial Reform Act. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In 2022, we will maintain our demand for fiscal seriousness and sincerity, the hallmark of this quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u4	In 2020, we committed absolutely considerable resources to limit the consequences of the health measures necessary to protect our citizens. 2021 was the first year of implementation of the recovery plan, but also saw the continuation of the emergency support measures for the economy decided due to the evolution of the epidemic. 2022 must be a year back to normal, even if, of course, the health risk has not disappeared. Today's exercise is part of the preparation of the finance bill (PLF) for 2022; It combines the presentation of the situation and the perspective of public finances. We have entered the health crisis with solid public finances, the result of the serious management to be put to the credit of the majority and the Government. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has been exemplary in the management of public finances, both for the State and local authorities and for social security. Public expenditure was controlled, with a decrease in volume in 2018 and a decrease in the ratio of public expenditure by more than one point between 2017 and 2019 – from 56.5% in 2017 to 55.4% of GDP in 2019. In addition, the government deficit, which stood at 2.2% of GDP excluding CICE effect – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – reached its lowest level since 2001, and the public debt ratio declined in 2018 for the first time since 2007, which continued in 2019. At the same time, we have fulfilled our commitments by proposing to Parliament to reduce French taxes: the rate of compulsory levies fell by 1.3 percentage points between 2017 and 2019. I stress this, because we must not forget the reasons why the State has been able to provide massive aid to the economy and society: it is because we have re-established public finances since 2017 that we have been able to implement, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, the emergency and recovery measures that you are familiar with. In 2020 and 2021, our unprecedented support and recovery measures helped to protect and then revive our economy. We have entered the crisis with a major financial strike force and we must be proud of it, because it is thanks to it that we have been able to react quickly and strongly and to provide the most effective answers expected by our fellow citizens. I am of course thinking of the main measures: partial activity, the solidarity fund, loans guaranteed for companies or aid for the payment of contributions, which are as effective as necessary to support households, protect businesses and communities, but also to preserve the skills and know-how of economic actors with a view to recovery. With Bruno Le Maire, we welcome the fact that they have allowed us to have one of the highest growth rates in the euro area and in the world. This aid has been instrumental in saving a large number of companies. Since 2017, the average annual number of business failures ranged from 50,000 to 55,000; it is less than 30,000 in the last twelve months. This may reflect an abnormal situation, but you know how much we ensure that this exit from crisis does not translate into what some sometimes call the "bankruptcy wall". We put in place the most effective measures to prevent the difficulties faced by viable companies facing liquidity or cash flow problems during this week's Amending Finance Bill (CFP). The purchasing power of the French increased overall in 2020, to 0.4 per cent, even as wealth production collapsed. We also note that income subject to withholding tax, mainly salaries and pensions, was higher in 2020 than it was in 2019, 3.5% to be exact. They continue to increase, at a slightly higher rate, since the beginning of the year 2021. Finally, the measures have been effective in preserving local and regional authorities. After a balanced balance at the end of 2019, local government showed a need for funding limited to €1.2 billion at the end of 2020 when the government and social security needed €137 billion. All this led to a stronger than expected rebound in consumption and investment, which is why, together with Bruno Le Maire, we decided to revise our growth forecast from 5% to 6%. As we know, the health crisis is not over and the Delta variant is spreading in our country, but the acceleration of the vaccination announced by the President of the Republic is obviously our best ally. We know that this crisis has had an unprecedented impact on our public finances. They are experiencing a historical deterioration: the deficit is growing, reaching 9.2% of GDP in 2020. This is due to the loss of revenue caused by the 8 per cent fall in activity induced by the crisis and the deployment of extraordinary support and stimulus measures to protect the French and the economy. For the last two years, their expenditure amounted to EUR 165 billion, of which EUR 91.2 billion in 2021. As everyone knows, emergency measures were continued in 2021 and adapted to the changing epidemic situation. In 2021, the deficit will therefore remain high, even if the improvement in growth prospects allows us to revise it downwards: slightly less than 9% of GDP, compared to 9.4% expected when the amending finance bill was introduced in your assembly. The preparation of the finance law for 2022 must allow us to look to the future. I would like to recall that the crisis has not led us to lose sight of our priorities. In 2022, we will continue the transformation of the economy that we have been carrying out since the beginning of the quinquennium. First, we will continue to revive the economy. The recovery plan has already been committed to 40 per cent; In 2022, we will move on to a second stage in order to achieve as soon as possible the €100 billion planned to return to growth by digitizing, greening and revitalizing our economy. Beyond this rapid recovery, the President of the Republic has announced his intention to put in place an investment plan to build France in 2030, a plan that meets the challenges of today – I will not come back to that since the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery has clarified both his philosophy and his timetable for preparation. In addition, the establishment of an income of commitment announced by the President of the Republic will encourage and help unemployed and untrained young people to integrate into the world of work, through personalized follow-up and in a logic of balance between rights and duties. In 2022, we will also continue our efforts to promote education, justice, security, the environment and support for the most vulnerable. The crisis has not tied our hands and the 2022 finance bill will thus decline the military programming law, the justice programming law and the research programming law. It also foresees an increase in the resources devoted to official development assistance. These are the priorities of the quinquennium for which we are committed. We will continue our efforts in the area of security and justice. The justice budget will again increase sharply, by 8 per cent, beyond what was provided for in the Justice Programming Act. That of the Ministry of the Interior will be increased by almost EUR 1 billion, in order to empower the police to carry out their tasks, including by mobilising and redeploying certain elements of the recovery plan in order to finance modernisation investments. We will also confirm our commitment to education. The Grenelle de l'éducation is already declining to the tune of 700 million euros: 400 million to revalue the training and teaching corps; EUR 100 million to take account of developments announced last year; EUR 200 million to finance the participation of the State employer in the supplementary social protection of officials of the Ministry of Education. We will continue the deployment of the inclusive school with the recruitment of 4000 accompanying students with disabilities at the beginning of September 2022. In addition, we will maintain several solidarity measures: 200000 emergency accommodation places will remain open until March 2022; In line with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the "one young person, one solution" scheme will continue, since it has enabled 2 million young people to find training, sometimes to obtain a job, often to sign an apprenticeship contract. Youth will also be supported through the deployment of the pass'sport and the pass culture, extended to students and high school students, but also with the universal national service. Our ambition is to increase the number of volunteers in 2022 to 50,000, compared to 25,000 planned for 2021. Finally, the Government will continue to invest heavily in ecological transition. The envelope of the MaPrimeRenov' device will thus be reabunded in 2022, as part of the recovery. The appropriations for transport infrastructure, in particular rail, will be increased in line with the mobility guidance law and support for rail freight will be increased. Biodiversity credits will also be strengthened. In short, the virus will not have caused our ambitions to waver. We will not depart from our commitments in the coming year. We committed ourselves to reform and will continue to do so in 2022. We will continue the transformation of the State and its action, with the full entry into force of the Civil Service Reform Act, but also with the implementation of the reform of the civil service and its recently announced formation. We will continue to work to ensure that 2022 is a useful year, during which reform will continue and the return to normalization of public spending will be undertaken. Government action will thus take fully into account the seriousness of the issue of sustainability of public finances. As Bruno Le Maire just pointed out, we have revised the deficit forecast for 2021 – it is expected to remain slightly below 9% – and we are maintaining the forecast forecast for 2022, as well as the recovery path of public finances in the stability programme by 2027. As far as the state budget is concerned, we are forecasting the increase in ordinary expenditure to EUR 10.8 billion. This reflects the funding of the priorities mentioned above, including funding provided by the Government's programming laws and commitments. This is a consistent step, in line with last year's, in order to finance both our priorities and a return to normal public spending without ruining the unprecedented efforts made by the French, which you have agreed to vote to go through this crisis and to meet the needs which it raises and which will enable us to support recovery and respond to emergencies. Finally, in order to control the means of operation of the State, we will stabilize its staff over the five-year period. As announced by the President of the Republic, we will implement several reforms, including that of unemployment insurance, which will enter into force on 1 October 2021, in order to accompany as much as possible the recovery in the labour market. We have also embarked on an ambitious plan for a comprehensive overhaul of the procurement function of the State. Since 2020, it has made it possible to achieve operating savings by optimising public spending on large financial volumes and rationalizing organizations, processes and purchasing strategies. I will conclude by stressing that we want to make public finances more sustainable and work towards better governance of them. To this end, we have embarked on a reform of the government's financial organization, with an objective of accountability of public managers and reconciliation of the department's financial branches and external budgetary control exercised by the Department of Public Accounts. Moreover, the framework for governance of public finances should be consolidated by the proposals for an organic and ordinary law by Éric Woerth and Laurent Saint-Martin, which, if adopted – as well as that of Thomas Mesnier on the part relating to social finances – will introduce a multi-year standard for the growth of public spending, strengthen the role of the High Council for Public Finance and enhance the role of Parliament on debt-related issues. To conclude my introductory statement on the policy debate on public finances, I would like to point out that this debate, like the previous ones, has the ambition of improving the transparency of the Government's budgetary reflections vis-à-vis Parliament. As last year, the guidelines we are submitting to you take into account the context and consequences of the health crisis. 2022 will be both a year of further recovery, a useful year of reforms and a year that will mark the return to normalisation of public spending. For, even at the height of the crisis, we have never diverted our gaze from the imperative of sustainability. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] Thus, the guidelines set out in the draft laws on the finance and financing of social security will fund the priorities of the President of the Republic and the Government, as well as continue efforts towards stronger, fairer and more sustainable growth with the conviction that this growth is the most effective remedy for debt growth. We reaffirm our commitment to honouring the country's debt commitments, without increasing taxes and maintaining the direction we have stood before you for almost five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u5	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u6	This debate on the direction of public finances is taking place – it has not escaped anyone – at the dawn of a pivotal year: a year that should mark the end of the health crisis, we all hope, and with it, the end of the support aid, but also a year punctuated by two major electoral deadlines. We are therefore entitled to expect from the Government a "strong and clear" commitment, as the military would say, to the restoration of public finances, i.e. objectives, a method and prospects. I was surprised, when I read the report in preparation for this debate on the direction of public finances, to find in the first pages a strange satisfecit: "between 2017 and 2019, the government's strategy to control the expenditure of all public administrations allowed a net recovery in the state of public finances. Obviously, if we share the same weather, we did not feel the same! How can we be satisfied that France is one of the euro area countries that has least well restored its accounts since the 2008 crisis? An erroneous diagnosis is, as a matter of principle, a wrong basis for decision-making. This government is responsible for this, as is the case with previous governments. I am not the only one to draw this conclusion, since the Court of Auditors, in its report on the state and outlook for public finances, does not hesitate to speak of an "unfinished" recovery in public finances before the crisis. How can we be satisfied that France was in 2019, together with Spain, one of the only two members of the euro area to be in primary deficit? It is clear that by never comparing itself to other countries, France always appears to be a winner! What you call "expenditure control" is a 1.4% increase in public expenditure in volume in 2019, the last successful year before the crisis. At 55.6%, in 2019, France had a public expenditure rate of almost 9 percentage points higher than the euro area average and, as the Court of Auditors points out, without this trend being the result of an increase due to competition in the quality of public services! We then sailed at cruising speed, without giving the necessary backlash that would have allowed us to more resist the violence of the economic crisis. This morning, very early, we finally received the separate shot – you work late since it was five o'clock in the morning! We learn there that the growth forecast, in line with Bruno Le Maire's comments, would rise from 5% to 6% – which we look forward to. But above all, we learn that while spending targets are clear and ubiquitous, economic objectives are completely absent. Pilotable expenditure thus increases by 10.8 billion euros, i.e. by 3.7%, between the initial finance law for 2021 and the finance bill for 2022! The rate of increase in these expenditures is also very high, from $6.8 billion to $10.8 billion, an increase of 60 to 65%. This is obviously considerable, especially since these pilotable expenditures do not seem to include the youth guarantee scheme, the second recovery plan or, probably, all the stimulus expenditure – even if this is not quite clear. While the preparatory report for the public finance policy debate is reassuring on the recovery path of public finances in the years to come, it illustrates two major renunciations. First, the renunciation of public spending to the level set out in the stability programme presented last April – I say well last April, not two or three years ago. Indeed, while you have committed yourself to increasing public expenditure in volume by 1.1% in 2022, excluding emergency and recovery measures, the preparatory report already foresees a slippage with an increase of 1.5% of expenditure in all public administrations combined next year – an estimate probably undervalued taking into account the figures reported this morning in the separate draft. This difference is likely to have significant consequences, if only because this 1.5% increase in 2022 represents twice the target of 0.7% of average volume increase in expenditure between 2022 and 2027 that was passed on to the European Union. Ministers, how do you intend to meet this goal when the year 2022 will already be degraded? The second renunciation concerns the number of State officials. Of course, it is not only a matter of downsizing, it would be an over-accounting approach, but how will you control public spending without reducing the cost of the public service? Everyone remembers that the President of the Republic had committed himself to reducing the number of agents in the State sphere by 50,000. You put an end, quite discreetly, to this objective – almost by valuing it, moreover: beautiful communication exercise! – explaining the desire to achieve "the stability of public employment within administrations and operators". It's really beautiful, I'm very moved to read it! While, given the number of civil servants in France, the reduction of the wage bill is an essential lever to reduce public deficits, it is difficult to understand how you will achieve your expenditure targets without resorting to it and even announcing an increase in the remuneration of categories C – again, it is quite magical! On the other hand, the documents tell us that you decided to remove the Emergency Plan mission from the model of the next finance bill, whereas the PLF for 2021 had maintained it without providing it with funds and that it had been abounded very quickly by amendments at the end of the year. I hope that the future will make you right and that we will not need emergency funding. I note that the President of the Republic has made good decisions by telling the French, with authority, that they must be vaccinated, but these decisions will probably require support measures. I therefore hope that the health context will not contradict the abolition of this mission. I am well aware that the economic crisis and the health crisis that is at the root of it greatly impedes decision-making and constrains ambitions. We have lived it under previous governments, certainly under different conditions. Of course, the fragility of our public finances, that is, the finances of all the French, does not date from today. In an attempt to answer this tedious and dangerous question, let me suggest four principles that you should apply. First, we must respect our commitments – the stability programme, the law on public finance programming – both with European bodies and with our financial partners. Every effort must be made to maintain the trust that they give us, before it collapses. How will you give them sufficient confidence to restore France's credibility on the European and international scene? Secondly, we must clearly state what will happen after 2022 and how we will finance the economic, social and ecological transition phase, which, of course, will extend well beyond that date. We have entered a phase in which aid to our economy must gradually withdraw in favour of economic recovery. In order to best allow growth to rebound, we must continue to provide the necessary support to companies that still need it. It is a case-by-case policy that must gradually become more widespread, and that is what you are doing. But beyond this period, we must promote the potential growth of France. Who can believe today that the recovery plan is exhausting the recovery? The lack of investment in key sectors such as the energy transition, the digital economy and many others, recalled by the Minister of the Economy, could jeopardize our recovery objective. How do you intend to finance these strategic sectors sustainably in order to boost growth while controlling public spending? Growth would obviously be less complicated to achieve in the absence of any control of public spending... Third, public spending must urgently be controlled and, as in love, evidence must be given, not just statements and virtuous intentions. In these exceptional times, the growth in spending is not solely attributable to the crisis. Based on the assumptions in the preparatory report for the public finance policy debate, public expenditure excluding support measures and tax credits for the year 2022 is expected to increase by about $21.8 billion. How do you intend to give more perspectives – none of them are designed here – to demonstrate that the Government is committed to real control of public spending? I have already said so, but the debates on public finances are similar to a large repetition exercise. At the same time, the President of the Republic has pushed back to the Greek calends – or rather to the "French calends", that is to say after the elections – the reform of pensions which was to postpone the starting age. How do you intend to respect all the trajectories presented in this very expensive atmosphere, illustrated again recently by the extension of the youth guarantee? How will you manage to prioritize spending? Fourth, finally, we must put an end to the infernal spiral of public debt. As long as the unemployment rate remains high, i.e. 8.1 per cent in 2021, there will be no room for manoeuvre either in terms of productivity or in terms of wealth production. In conclusion, we are at a turning point in economic, financial, political and social life. Behind the austerity of the figures and the budgetary issues, it is really about our national cohesion and the control of our independence. The approach to the presidential election must not cause us to give up the necessary reforms. Every step back is a waste of valuable time and a greater exposure to future crises. [[Charles de Courson applauds]] My speech is neither pessimistic nor defeatist nor moralizing. On the contrary, and as you know, the French economy has shown its robustness. But I am convinced that France does not subscribe to a double fatality: unemployment and uncontrolled financial deficits. The prospects for 2022 that you are presenting to us do not fully demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u7	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u8	This year's public finance policy debate takes place in a very specific context. As a result of the health crisis, the European framework, in particular the Stability and Growth Pact, remains suspended until the end of 2022. This concerns the rules on excessive deficits and the definition of the path to fill them. Moreover, the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022 can no longer be a reference. The massive use, starting in March 2020, of fiscal policy to maintain French salaries, their jobs and our businesses has made this national framework completely obsolete. This lack of benchmarks, which the health crisis has imposed on us all for more than a year, remains visible today. The Government has revised its growth forecast for 2021 upwards, which now stands at 6 per cent two days ago, ten days after the vote on an amending finance bill. Household confidence is growing and consumption is dynamic; the activity has recovered sharply despite a health context that is re-emerging. This, however, once again alters the parliamentary assessment of the management of our public finances. However, on the basis of a vaccination that everyone hopes will be effective, massive and as fast as possible in France and around the world in this direction, the draft finance law for 2022 should draw a start of a return to normal from the point of view of public finances, in an improved macroeconomic context based on vigorous growth, observed in 2021, and due to the extinction of the main emergency measures. Thus, the activity would exceed its 2019 level by 2022. On the other hand, 2022 will remain a special year for public spending, as it will be a full year for the recovery plan. In total, 2022 should therefore be a pivotal year, taking note of the end of the "no matter what" from the point of view of fiscal policy and preparing for the implementation, from 2023 onwards, of a medium-term fiscal policy which relies on the control of public expenditure to bring down the public debt ratio from 2026. Thus, the government balance is expected to remain significantly degraded by 2022, to – 5.3%. It is improving substantially, however, after a level slightly below – 9% in 2021, which was updated as a result of the 6% revision of growth. Apart from the statement sent to us by the Government last night, it can be noted that sectoral budget planning laws are respected, if not exceeded, for the armed forces, for justice, for research. The same applies to the Official Development Assistance Act. Other government priorities are also being met. I am thinking in particular of school education, with 1.7 billion under the Grenelle de l'éducation, at work, with the continuation of the scheme "1 young person, 1 solution", culture, with the continuation of the pass culture, funds for our forces of law and order. Resources allocated to local and regional authorities are also stabilized at a high level. More generally, public expenditure could increase by 1.5% in 2022, at a rate that was consistent with pre-crisis standards, but about twice as high as that scheduled from 2023 until 2027. It is this moderate pace that is expected to reduce the public debt ratio in national wealth from 2026 onwards. By 2022, this ratio would reach 115.7% and increase until 2025 to 118.3%, before stabilizing in 2026 and then declining from 2027. This will also be the year when the government deficit is expected to return to below 3% of GDP. This is the objective: after such a crisis and the need to spend as much as necessary, we will have to regain control and control over our long-term commitments. Our debate may be an opportunity to reflect on the public finance strategy emerging from the unprecedented crisis that began in March 2020. The development of such a strategy is essential to send a strong, legible and credible signal to the French, who are very legitimately questioning the ability we will have in the future to protect them. They are waiting for us to be able to rebuild that capacity. This strategy is also aimed at all present and future creditors of France. Our country has been able to get as much debt as it needs to support its economy and protect households. Not all countries have this ability and trust in France's signature is a precious intangible asset for all French people, but fragile. We need to maintain it. A serious and ambitious path can be envisaged for the coming years. It is not a question of giving in to the mermaids of fiscal consolidation, which would depress the activity, by repeating some past mistakes that have led to a heavy increase in taxes, in particular of households, in order to catch up with public expenditure. Nor is it a matter of opening the valves large in the context of the temporary suspension of European rules. On the other hand, it is a matter of combining serious budgetary measures with the controlled increase in public expenditure and a strengthening of public investment to catch up with the loss of activity, and even to exceed the potential growth rate of France's pre-crisis period. I think it is possible and desirable to establish a simple rule that is understandable to everyone: by 2027 and as soon as possible, a zero primary balance must be reached in France, i.e. excluding interest charges on the debt. In calm weather, our public finances must be balanced. That is what most of our European neighbours are able to do. It would be a simple and reassuring message to our compatriots. Yes, France knows how to finance in the long term the social model that protects the French. To achieve this, it is necessary to establish the most virtuous relationship possible between public commitments and economic activity. As designed, the recovery plan should make it possible to catch up with the loss of activities related to the crisis. There is a need to consider a complementary period of recovery aimed at ensuring the ecological transition and strengthening the economy's growth potential by 2030. We mentioned this, particularly with my colleague Bénédicte Peyrol and MEP Pascal Canfin a few months ago. We are pleased to see that reflection is successful and that the first principles are established in this regard; We have an appointment in September on this point. In this context, the control of our public accounts by that of public expenditure will require choices based on a review of public expenditure. The first exploratory work was numerous in 2021 to help define the right methodology in this area. It will be up to the French to decide on the underlying political issues at the next national democratic deadlines, in less than a year, before they can be translated into a legislative medium of programming valid for the next parliamentary term. The French Presidency of the European Union, in the first half of 2022, will be a crucial moment to consider an ambitious and adapted reform of the European rules governing national public finances, with the aim of seeking to ensure the sustainability of the public debt of each Member State. The European Union has demonstrated since the beginning of the crisis its decisive contribution to dealing with the crisis. And first of all by means of an adapted and massive monetary policy, which allowed us to borrow at very low rates. What a good decision the French made in its time by making the choice of the euro, decision renewed in 2017! The European Union is also the historic creation of a collective debt faculty that we will soon benefit from in concrete terms. Of course, we must work to strengthen it. It is also now a matter of revisiting our collective Community rules in order to better adapt them to the specific situation of each country and to guarantee the power of the Community contribution to national economic policies. In the very short term, the proposals for an organic and ordinary law that our Assembly will consider this afternoon in a special committee, and then early next week in a public sitting, will, I hope, help strengthen our internal tools for governance of our public finances. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, we need to talk about moving forward the debate on the direction of public finances in April, which we will do with Eric Woerth in our proposal for an organic law. This exercise of public finance policy debate in July could thus be the last of its kind, if this provision were adopted, but it would be to meet us here earlier in the calendar year, within the framework of a more coherent timetable, at the service of our public finances, therefore of the French. I hope that we can do this and I will meet all the special commissioners this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u9	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u10	We are gathered today for the last public finance policy debate of the legislature. This debate is taking place in a context of uncertainty with regard to the health situation, which should not prevent us from seriously considering post-crisis with ambition. Since the beginning of the pandemic, social security has shown that it is more essential than ever for our country. Our model of social protection stood at the height of the storm, devoting all the means necessary to fight the virus and contributing to the massive support of our economy. The state of the social security accounts, which returned to a level close to balance in 2019, reflects today mainly the gravity of the health crisis. The deficit in the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV) reached nearly EUR 39 billion in 2020, seven times the amount envisaged in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. It's just never before seen. By comparison, the deficit in 2010 had reached "only" EUR 28 billion. However, we can be comforted by the fact that the last law on the financing of social security provided for a deficit of EUR 49 billion for the financial year 2020, the difference being mainly due to better than expected revenues. This good surprise in this troubled period, in my view, is a testament to the effectiveness of the measures we have taken to support the economy. While all the branches of the general system were in deficit last year, the disease branch is by far the one that bears, unsurprisingly, the most visible stigma of the health crisis, with a deficit of more than EUR 30 billion. The increase in the national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) by EUR 14 billion compared to what had been voted in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020 is the result of an increase in the forecast of the measures taken to stem the epidemic and strengthen our health system: compensation for the loss of revenue from the activities of health and medical-social institutions, treatment of screening tests, exceptional allocation allocated to Public Health France, whose budget has increased tenfold, payment of bonuses for staff in health and medical-social institutions, increase in the remuneration of health and non-care workers in accordance with the Segur agreements, etc. It's a long list. Our majority thus made the choice, at the height of the crisis, to strengthen our health system. It has also made the choice – as I recall when this measure came into effect only fifteen days ago – to offer all men in our country the opportunity to take extended paternity leave, and therefore to offer all mothers an affirmed support in a often delicate period. This choice, amounting to EUR 500 million in full-year terms, is indeed that of early prevention and equality between women and men at a time when the virus was testing our social cohesion. However, we cannot focus solely on this expenditure in view of the magnitude of the response given by our social protection. Social shock absorbers, in all their dimensions, have played their full part. Partial activity, in particular, has made it possible to compensate for the income losses of several million employees, amounting to more than €27 billion in 2020. Exempt from social security contributions, this massive recourse explains a very important part of the fall in social security revenues in 2020 and also had a massive impact on the UNEDIC accounts, which financed one third of them. On the revenue side, quite rightly, considerable efforts have also been made to preserve our economy. Deferrals, and then exemptions from social contributions, which I say have been fully compensated by the State for social security, were immediately decided to support the companies most affected by the health restrictions, to the tune of EUR 8 billion. I would like once again to welcome the reactivity of the "recovery" branch and therefore of the network of the USSRAF, which was able to mobilize very quickly, meet the expectations of thousands of companies and cope with the variety of activities affected by the consequences of the health crisis. I now know that they are focused on supporting companies towards what I hope will soon be the end of the crisis. Given last spring's epidemic rebound and the prospect of a fourth wave, social finances are and will continue to be heavily pressured this year. For example, expenditure on the general scheme and the FSV is expected to increase by about 5% in 2021, according to the Social Security Audit Committee, which issued its report at the beginning of the month. This trend would be fuelled, in particular, by the exceptional expenditure on crisis management: ONDAM could exceed the target set in the Social Security Financing Act by €9 billion by 2021. To this will be added the new upgrading measures resulting from the Ségur de la santé, which represent an additional effort of €6.3 billion per year, plus 1.4 billion in investment support. As high as they are, these expenses are essential to get out of the health crisis, to implement an unprecedented plan of investment and upgrading of careers in the hospital, and finally to allow the resumption of economic activity. However, they must not forget the need to continue, in the long run, the efforts to control public spending that marked the beginning of this legislature. To the extent that it accounts for a quarter of public expenditure, our pension system, whose accounts will remain in the red for a long time in the absence of new measures, will have to be the subject of a thorough reflection on the conditions for its return to financial balance, if we are to preserve our social model without increasing compulsory levies or our debt. To be calm, this reflection can only succeed when the health crisis is under control.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u11	The control of social expenditure will also require an improvement in their control. The creation last year of a fifth branch of social security dedicated to support for autonomy naturally meets this objective. In the context of the aging of our population, it will strengthen the care of the dependency of our seniors, but also of people with disabilities. This could be part of a revamped review of social security financing laws. Established in 1996, substantially reformed for the last time in 2005, the organizational framework of social security financing laws now deserves modernization. The health crisis highlighted some of its shortcomings. That is why, as a follow-up to many of the work undertaken for several years by various actors, last May I tabled two bills, one organic, the other ordinary, which we are now examining in a special committee, with a view to thoroughly renovating the management of social finances. These texts serve three purposes. First of all, it is a matter of strengthening Parliament's information on the state of social accounts, by re-thinking in depth the annexes attached to the financing bill. I also hope that parliamentarians will be able to take greater ownership of the social security financing laws, by spending a specific amount of time in the spring to approve the accounts of the previous year or by aligning the date of the tabling of the financing bill with that of the finance bill, so as to allow the exercise of the right of amendment under better conditions than today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u12	I hope that this democratic respiration will also include relations with the social partners. The social security funds must therefore be able to take more time to deliver reasoned and in-depth opinions to the parliamentarians themselves, in order to build bridges between representative democracy and social democracy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it seems to me that the existence of a recurring social financial text should invite us to reconsider both its scope and its place in relation to the other texts. It seems to me neither normal nor desirable that the financing law should not present more consolidated information or prohibit certain debates – such as those on the debt of health institutions – even though we are discussing many aspects of their financing. I also believe that it is necessary for financing laws to be reserved for the continuation of new measures of exemption, which should be assessed more systematically, in order to make them a genuine "vigie" of social finances. This will give us an opportunity to adopt, as early as this afternoon in the special committee and as early as Monday in the Chamber, an organic framework that is renovated, extended and more respectful of Parliament's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u13	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u14	The debate on the direction of public finances begins at a time of uncertainty and distrust, an uncertainty which primarily concerns the health situation but which inevitably spreads to all sectors of social and economic life. This climate is aggravated by a citizens' distrust of a rare magnitude, the signs of which are multiple and disturbing. The crisis that seemed to be beginning to emerge was upset by a new variant of the Covid 19 which raised fears of further restrictions, but also of new sacrifices, especially for the most modest ones. In this regard, the last intervention of the President of the Republic on Monday evening is revealing. If the change of course on the vaccination strategy is complete and would have deserved more details on the main lines of its implementation, we do not see any major inflection with regard to the social and economic policy consistently applied over the past four years, on the contrary. In a speech supposed to sound the mobilization for vaccination and to be consistent, President Macron allowed himself to devote almost half of his speech to reminding us of the fundamentals of neoliberal ideology that inspires his political choices, as well as to setting the economic and social agenda for the coming months. As far as you are concerned, Minister Delegate, we have learned much more about the budgetary guidelines to come by listening for fifteen minutes to the President of the Republic than by reading the report you have provided us, which is limited to praising the economic policy carried out since 2017, especially since the drawing aside came to us this morning! Better late than never, it seems. Next time, we may receive it after the debate! In reality, all this is similar, overlapping and complete, and it must be noted that the programme announced by Emmanuel Macron for the end of 2021 and the beginning of the year 2022 is in line with the economic policy pursued for the past four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u15	In a sort of general repetition, everything has passed: the argument of the value of work to justify the reduction of unemployment benefits; classic banality on the fact that we live longer and therefore need to work longer to justify pension reform; Finally, more generally, the need not to increase the taxes of the French so as not to have to make use of the most wealthy, whose number has indeed increased during this crisis, and ultimately choose to make the crisis pay for by the most modest through the fall in spending. I am thinking in particular of the students, who have recently learned the end of 1 euro meals for all. How can our democracy be reduced to such a level, by refusing to make the crisis pay to those who have benefited from it and by sacrificing a basic social justice system? We had little illusions. The President of the Republic came to confirm what the French feared. For several months now, the Government has been constantly preparing the minds for the return of austerity and anti-social measures. The various reports ordered from the Court of Auditors, the Arthuis Committee or the Tirole-Blanchard Committee were intended to give a pseudo-caution to these policies. They are now officially confirmed. This is the case with the reform of unemployment insurance, which has repeatedly been pushed back because of the social disasters it would have caused. Recently suspended by the Council of State, it will be back from 1 October to save €2.3 billion on the back of the unemployed. The same applies to the reform of pensions, which was put into check last year by social mobilization: it will be back as soon as the health conditions improve. While the difference in life expectancy between an executive and a worker is six years, it is on them that you will make savings to pay the cost of the crisis. The objective of these policies is clear and must be brought to the attention of all. On the one hand, it is a matter of respecting the reform commitments you promised to the European Commission in order to obtain the appropriations of the European Recovery Plan, and on the other hand, of respecting the downward trend in expenditure set out in the stability programme transmitted to that same European Commission in April.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u16	Now the problem is not even the public deficit, but the public expenditure. In other words, the target is indeed the place and scope of action of the state, which you must ideologically reduce. It is in this spirit that we will be considering the proposed organic law next week, which will serve as a straitjacket for future budgetary discussions. From now on, the level of public spending will become the only and only tool for managing economic policies. From now on, there is a real ban on any increase in compulsory levies. Under these conditions, you choose to exempt the most affluent taxpayers from participating in the budget effort, which is essential, even though the country's 500 largest fortunes have seen their wealth grow by 30 per cent during the pandemic. And believe well, Minister Delegate, that the statements of the media government to proudly announce that in 2020, the solidarity tax on wealth has earned 1.5 billion euros, do not deceive anyone. Despite its recurrence, your message simply does not pass, because we all know that this amounts to 2.5 billion euros less than the ISF in 2017. You are now doing a self-satisfaction exercise on the introduction of a global tax. Yet you held back during the negotiations and worked to set the rate at 15 per cent, not 21 per cent as other countries proposed. This tax will not solve tax competition between developed countries and will deprive the State of the €12 billion in additional tax revenue it could have hoped for if the global rate had been set at 21%. Similarly, while the reform of autonomy has been announced for several months and its cost is estimated at 10 billion euros, the President of the Republic now announces that this reform will take place, but without new funding. While you have extended the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES) to repay the covid's famous social debt, where will you find the money? Will you propose a reform at a discount, without any funding, or will you once again make this reform pay to the poorest? This reluctance to impose the richest at a time when our social contract has to be renewed and our economic sovereignty has to be affirmed again is becoming increasingly harmful. Mr Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, this epidemic has put all our territories to the test. But the most fragile and the least armed were probably even harder hit. I am, of course, thinking about overseas, and especially La Réunion, of which I am elected. I would like once again to draw the Government's attention to what is like a real time bomb. I want to talk about the dizzying and continuous increase in freight costs, whether it be marine or air. All signals are red. No sector is spared. With increases of between 50 and 200%, the impact on our businesses, and therefore on employment, is formidable and the efforts made are likely to be reduced to nothing. In our societies heavily dependent on external supplies, a deterioration of purchasing power is not to be excluded, either, far from it. Mr Delegate, this situation, as we understand it, will not regulate itself and the intervention of the public authorities is indispensable in order to avoid a disaster scenario and its cascade of disorder. This health crisis has brutally brought to light the frailties and stalemates of neoliberal globalization. It has led to awareness and promises of reinvention. We understood that the economic policy which created so many fractures, which blew up inequalities and reduced the margins of public action, would be reviewed. But even as the horizon of the exit from the crisis recedes, the President of the Republic has just informed the French that it will not be, that the same ideological line will still be at work in the coming months. Against all logic and despite the blissful flaws revealed by this crisis, the examination of the latest draft laws on finance and social security financing of this quinquennium risks therefore adding an identical page to the neoliberal agenda of your government. Be sure that, like the vast majority of the French and with them, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u17	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u18	The discussions that we are going to engage in in this debate on the direction of public finances are important: they will set out the broad lines that will allow us to prepare for the consideration of the 2022 Finance Bill and to respond to the challenges and issues that are still before us. Given the consequences of the health crisis, the next finance bill will not only be a classic end-of-term budget. It will have to serve our goal of exiting the crisis, with the end of exceptional emergency measures, but above all, it will have to reflect our ambition of recovery. Yes, the next FLP will not be reduced to end-of-term budget appropriations. In 2022, the France Recovery Plan will continue to foster growth over the next ten years, notably by continuing to support the purchasing power of households, reducing unemployment in all territories and deploying ambitious public investments. We voted EUR 100 billion for the recovery plan, notably through the Europe Agreement: EUR 40 billion was deployed on the ground. We need to go even further in order to continue to realize the investments on the ground as I saw in the Val d'Oise. Before presenting the broad lines that will guide the continuation of the action that we have taken since the beginning of the quinquennium, it is important to put into perspective, in this debate, the considerable and increasing means that have been put in place to carry out the regal public policies aimed at improving the security of the French and strengthening education and justice. Education has been the priority of the quinquennium, with 4.3 billion euros of additional appropriations between 2017 and 2021, allowing to finance priority projects for the duplication of classes, the limitation of the number of pupils in CP, CE1 and major kindergarten section, and the strengthening of the accompaniment of the handicap in the school, whose means have been more than doubled since 2017. This increase in appropriations has enabled the substantial increase in the remuneration of national education staff and a proactive compensation policy which will continue in 2022 with the financing of the measures resulting from the Grenelle de l'Éducation. The Ministry of the Interior has benefited from an increase of €2 billion to improve the security of the French on a daily basis, with the recruitment of 10,000 police officers and gendarmes on the ground, as well as an increase in career and remuneration. It is also EUR 1.5 billion under the stimulus plan to modernise the police, in particular through increased spending on digital, equipment and vehicle acquisitions. We must also mention an increase in appropriations, by 2022, of almost 20% compared to 2017 to reform the justice system, of which we all know how essential it is, with the creation of 6,500 jobs between 2018 and 2022 to improve the justice system. These considerable budgetary resources have enabled us to begin the transformation of our country while preserving our social model, to take economic and social emergency measures in the face of the yellow vest crisis and to protect our businesses, our jobs and the purchasing power of the French during the entire health crisis. The next budget will have to allow us both to pursue the priorities that we have set since the beginning of the quinquennium and to emerge from the crisis, while continuing to launch a powerful recovery in order to return to pre-epidemic levels of activity and employment and, above all, to prepare for the future. We will have to meet the challenges facing our country in order to continue to create the conditions for the development of tomorrow's companies in the future sectors of digital technology, the green industry – the green aircraft is no longer a utopia! – biotechnology and sustainable agriculture, like the Agoralim project, recently launched by the Semmaris and which François Pupponi and I are very proud to see moving to the east of Val d'Oise to reinvent the ecological agriculture of tomorrow. We must also continue our efforts in lifelong learning, by strengthening all the support and retraining mechanisms for people who are far from work or young people without a solution. The plan "1 young, 1 solution" has more than ever borne fruit and we must not let go of it. I would like to recall in this debate that it will indeed be important to continue to invest for our youth, for education – especially for early childhood – and not to forget those who have been heavily weakened by the health crisis. There is a need to continue to improve the care of persons with disabilities and isolated older persons. We will have to finance all these ambitions by keeping our promise of lasting tax cuts. The report on the basis of which we launch this debate highlights the sound management of public finances between 2017 and 2019. Considerable efforts had been made to improve the public balance by reducing it to 3% of GDP, to reduce our public debt and to reduce compulsory levies: our majority continued to reduce taxes for businesses in order to promote their competitiveness, but it also set in motion in 2018 a reduction in taxes for households – I recall that 80% of our compatriots no longer pay the housing tax and that from this year onwards, the remaining 20% will stop paying it, at 30% this year, 30% next year and 30% in 2023. It is important to stress that the next finance bill must also allow the normalization of the fiscal year to begin after a new situation: in the medium term, the Government has set out a path, in its stability programme, which aims to start the decline of the debt-to-GDP ratio by 2027, with almost stabilization in 2026. We will not be able to carry out these projects unless we continue our process of transforming public action to make it simpler wherever possible and more efficient in the deployment of our public policies on the ground. This will require greater deconcentration in order to provide more flexibility for deconcentrated financial and human resources services to adapt their organization and resources to the needs of our territory. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, our majority intends to continue the transformation project that has been carried out so far by continuing to invest, to create favourable conditions for research and innovation, for our re-industrialisation, but above all for environmentally friendly growth. This transformation project has enabled France to become the most attractive country in Europe in terms of investment. This attraction is a concrete success. One in five companies is planning to repatriate their business to French territory. The "choose France" and "La France, une chance", become a reality that will allow us collectively to continue the investments necessary to build France by 2030 together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u19	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u20	We are gathered here for perhaps one of the last public finance policy debates heard as the first step, at the end of the first half of the year, in the parliamentary review of finance bills. The very short time between the transmission of the separate drawing presenting the ceilings of appropriations per mission in the PLF for 2022 and this debate does not facilitate this projection, and I fear that, as every year, we will stop at more general remarks. However, I know that we will be able to continue our discussions, Minister Delegate, on more specific issues related to mission appropriations in the summer and fall of this year. The public finance policy debate is first of all an opportunity to make an initial inventory of the past and present economic and financial situation, in order to be able, in a second phase, to project itself on future financial years. France is leaving again, with 6% growth now anticipated by national and European institutions in 2021, more than one point more than the euro area average. This growth of an unknown level since the 1970s is primarily due to the good resilience of the French economy to the crisis of the Covid-19. The health crisis caused an exceptional fall in economic activity, with a recession of eight percentage points of GDP last year, which is due in particular to containment measures: in a few hours, to preserve the health of our fellow citizens, were closed hotels, bars, restaurants, sports halls, offices, schools, universities, workshops and factories, to reopen gradually only a few weeks or even months later. In a word, life has been put under a bell. In order to deal with this situation, and to prevent an equally serious economic and social crisis from being added to the health crisis, public administrations, and in the first place the State, have, within a very short period of time, reacted on an exceptional scale. These include the deferral of tax and social charges and State-guaranteed loans, as well as partial activity and the solidarity fund. This response makes the state the most bearer of the financial consequences of the crisis, and the government deficit therefore stands at nine points of GDP. On the other hand, however, and thanks to this, business investment has fallen less than would have been expected by the decline in activity and purchasing power, despite the economic downturn, has even increased by 0.4%. This good resilience made possible by the state allows us today to be one of the fastest growing economies in the European Union and to aim for a return to pre-crisis activity by 2022, much faster than we feared at the height of this crisis. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we would be wrong if we considered that the current recovery is only the result of the exceptional efforts made in 2020 and 2021: it is also the result of the ambitious reforms launched since 2017. The reforms made it possible to encourage growth and make France more attractive. Several structural reforms, such as the law on the labour market, the CAPTE law, or the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, as well as, in the field of public finances, the reform of capital taxation and the gradual reduction of corporate tax, to which must be added, in 2021, the abolition of part of production taxes, enabled France to be the most attractive destination in Europe for foreign investment, in 2019 as in 2020. This new activity results in an increase in employment, which returns to, or even exceeds, the levels of growth prior to the 2018 crisis in 2019. Industrial employment is even experiencing a slow resurgence, allowed by a structural movement, albeit timid, of relocation of industrial activities. However, the sharp rise in the debt due to the crisis, as well as the implementation of the recovery and resilience plan, must encourage us to continue on the path, and our colleague and friend Jean-Paul Mattei will present you with the proposals of the Democrats in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u21	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u22	In my view, this budgetary policy debate should answer five structural questions for our economy and, Mr. Deputy Minister, I do not think I have heard these five questions in your remarks or in Mr. Le Maire's – or, therefore, the answers to these questions. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to address them to you. The first is macroeconomic scenarios. As was said before me, you sent us last night, at five o'clock in the morning, a revision of the scenario for 2021: instead of 5% economic growth, you expect 6%. By 2022, on the other hand, you maintain an economic growth scenario of 4%. These data are in line with those of most economic institutes, which seems to me to be a reasonable basis for work. However, the health context creates a level of uncertainty that would still be important to understand, or at least to mention, which is absolutely not the case in the documents that you have given us. If the projections on which you are based were not to be realized, this would lead to a further deterioration of public finances, simply because it would be necessary to reabunde the emergency mechanisms that, as has been recalled, you have closed – you have indeed removed the emergency plan mission in the face of the health crisis – and the State would suffer a decrease in its revenues as a result of the crisis. It would therefore require that we continue to be able to finance ourselves through the European Central Bank, since it is the European Central Bank, and it alone, which allows us not to be at a standstill today. It is therefore this channel of securing financing that it would be important to address, especially since you will not have escaped the fact that in Germany, the country which contributes the most to this financing mechanism, will take place in September this year of legislative elections, the result of which could be a change of philosophy. Today, the European Central Bank has a balance sheet size – i.e. the amount of what it finances – of almost 8000 billion euros, representing three quarters of the euro area's GDP. This proportion is, for example, double what is observed in the U.S. by reporting U.S. GDP to the size of the Fed, the Federal Reserve. I would therefore like you to shed some light on the financing mechanism. I am aware that the European Central Bank is independent, but I am also aware that, given the sums involved, only political decision-making is required in this area. The second question is the sanctuarization of potential growth. This concept, which may seem a bit technocratic, is very important, because it is the one that secures our future. The economic growth forecasts of 6% in 2021 and 4% in 2022 can reassure – at least they illustrate the fact that our economy is going back on track. In fact, it is only a matter of catching up because – INSEE published it at the end of May – France's GDP fell by 8% in 2020 compared to 2019: in other words, the crisis has destroyed more than 122 billion euros of value added in our country, which is unprecedented. Therefore, having an economic growth of 6% in 2021 and 4% in 2022 will only allow, by the end of 2022, to exceed our level of wealth in 2019, when other European countries will be well above it, as the European Commission has indicated. Potential growth measures our ability to create value and activity on a sustainable basis, since it measures the wealth created if all the factors of production are used, which implies that these factors of production exist and are used at 100%. In the documents you provided us, you project this potential growth to 1.35% per year starting in 2022. This assumption seems very optimistic, as most economic institutes, including the International Monetary Fund, predict potential growth of 1.2 per cent from 2025 and, between 2022 and 2025, a slowdown. Even if the consequences of such scenarios are to be felt only in two or three years – the difficulty of potential growth is that we do not immediately see the consequences – it is your responsibility, Minister Delegate, to deal with them now. Not to take care of it is to condemn us, in three or four years' time, to a further economic downgrading. In concrete terms, this means that if you do nothing, what happened with the vaccines – I recall that at this stage, we are the only permanent member of the UN Security Council that has not created a vaccine – will happen in other areas – I am thinking in particular of the energy transition. Now, in the documents that you have given us – even in those that arrived at five o'clock this morning! –, there's nothing. Therefore, I repeat what I have already had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions: a real investment plan, legible, oriented around a few sectors that create a real driving effect. There is a need to define a strategy targeted around five sectors, which amounts to adopting the method inverse to that adopted by the Government, which has conceived its recovery plan as a kind of stuff - all without a guideline, with a few million euros here or there. For example, 11 million euros have been dedicated to the planting of hedges: this is probably very good, but it does not create any driving effect. There is a need for an investment plan that allows for action from A to Z. For example, when it comes to charging stations for electric vehicles, you offer a simple subsidy when Germany supports the entire investment. That is what we expect from a strategist state in economic matters. It is still time to correct the shot and build a real industrial plan. Rather than working alone, the Government would be in the interest of bringing together the industrialists of our country and defining, in consultation with them, the key projects that, based on the five strategic sectors of energy, transport, agriculture, health and digital technology, would provide a real driving force for the entire economy: the creation of carbon sinks, the reopening of drug plants – I am thinking here of my colleague Christine Pires Beaune –, the meshing of territories into charging stations for electric cars, the development of a biomethane industry, essential for rural areas or the creation of opportunities for the hydrogen industry. That, Minister, is a real rope, organized around clear objectives. All this bears a name: reindustrialization. In this respect, I can only invite you to adopt the Biden method, which is based on three pillars: making the economy turn, supporting it with massive public investments, and ensuring that it does so without destroying value. The third question is the governance of public finances. In the scenario you have chosen, you have a downward trend in public spending, but you don't want to say which ones! I find this method unethical, and I therefore ask you the question: to keep up the path you propose, what public expenditure do you intend to cut? The document received this morning at dawn reports, for 2022, some cuts here or there: 100 million euros less for veterans, 700 million euros less for the public energy service – a peak, at a time when we are talking about energy transition! – EUR 100 million less for social and pension schemes – these are just a few examples. Question 4: In the spring and summer, the Government made a lot of new announcements, but no budget translation was found in the 2021 Finance Amendment Bill. Since they are not budgeted, these announcements will have no reality in 2021. They will be implemented at best in 2022, provided that you budget them – and again, you will admit that even if they are, they will only be effective with a year's delay compared to your announcements. Among the measures announced are the premiums for teachers, the plan Avenir montagnes, the psychological accompaniment check, 1 billion euros for housing and the extension of the youth guarantee. But, in my view, the 2 million euros you promised that the 3919 teams, the emergency number for domestic violence, would finally be large enough to take all the calls, seven days a week and 24 hours a day, and leave no more than 40% of the calls unanswered. Two million euros, Minister, is not much, but it does not appear in the PLFR. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Fifth question: the future of young people. Since July 2020, together with the Members of my group, we are alerting you to the situation of young people – I had already done so as part of my response to the Prime Minister in his general policy speech. In a note dated 12 May 2021, the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics (DARES) observed a deterioration in the situation of young people greater than for the rest of the population. She wrote: "In 2020, following the crisis of the covid-19, the labour market situation is deteriorating, especially among young people. The employment rate for 15- to 24-year-olds declines by 1.2 percentage points, while it decreases by only 0.4 percentage points for those aged 25 to 49. Thus, according to Eurostat, the European Institute of Statistics, one in four young people aged 15 to 24 years is unemployed. In the face of this situation, we have made many proposals, all of which have been costed. In particular, we proposed the creation of a "minimum youth", in line with the minimum old age in our country. Mr Minister, France must cease to be one of the four countries of the European Union, which still has 27 of them, not opening up social rights to young people. This must be a priority, and we will address it in the debate on the presidential election. The minimum youth must be realized in our country, and France must no longer be an exception in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u23	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u24	This morning we meet again for the traditional debate on the orientation of public finances, which is of particular importance at this very special time. The violence of the health and economic crisis has led to a massive response by the public authorities to the unprecedented consequences for our country's finances. The preparatory report for the public finance policy debate sweeps the financial situation before, during and after the crisis. We share the vast majority of the findings and guidelines contained therein, although some points seem to us to require mitigation or clarification. First of all, with regard to the pre-crisis state of public finances, the Government welcomes its good management, which has made it possible to stabilize the debt-GDP ratio at less than 98 per cent, and to bring the public deficit below the 3 percentage points of GDP. If we share this view, we are convinced that we could – and should – have gone further in restoring public accounts: indeed, we have approached the crisis in a situation less enviable than the vast majority of our European partners. However, this requirement must be balanced by three important observations. Firstly, the policy of reducing compulsory levies, both for individuals and for businesses, has enabled our citizens to regain purchasing power and competitiveness. This policy is bearing fruit, with France remaining in 2020, for the second consecutive year, the most attractive country in Europe for investors. In addition, the social climate that presided over in France in 2018 and 2019, notably with the yellow vest movement, led the Government to take remedial measures in favour of purchasing power that had not been decided in recent years. Finally, if the effort to restore public accounts should have been more important since 2017, it should have been more important for more than thirty years: successive governments, on the right and on the left, have in fact failed to raise the bar. On the other hand, with regard to crisis management – a subject that we have already discussed at length in the Chamber – I believe that we can almost all agree on the correctness of the response given by the public authorities: it has been massive, effective and well calibrated. The "no matter what" was the only doctrine that could protect our citizens and economic actors from the crisis. 2021 is therefore a pivotal year: policies to support the economy and our most fragile citizens must be in line with the rapid deployment of the recovery plan. Finally, it is now necessary to succeed in the crucial phase of exiting the crisis, while the health situation is likely to change by the 2022 PLF. As such, the intervention of the President of the Republic on Monday allowed us to recall our priority: vaccination for all. With the sanitary pass, she's our best weapon to get out of this crisis forever. The President also referred to the future, to the reforms needed to modernise the functioning of the State, to strengthen our lifelong learning policy or to respond to the major challenge of older people's autonomy. In our view, these announcements should find a budget translation as soon as the next FLP. We also fully share the need to continue to invest in building the French economy of tomorrow, by putting an end to our dependence on strategic sectors – this has already been stressed, both by the speakers who preceded me, by the minister, and by the Secretary of State. In addition to these priorities recalled by the President of the Republic, we must add that given to the policies of the Republic, referred to in the preparatory report for this debate, and the cliquet effect of the emergency and recovery measures taken to respond to the crisis. All these policies have a cost to our public finances and will have to be funded. Minister, can you give us more details on the funding of these many new expenditures? They seem to us to be legitimate, but we would be concerned if they were to lead to additional debt – my colleague, Lise Magnier, will come back in more detail on this subject. In any case, you can count on the Take Together group to accompany you in your reformative ambition to offer French and French people a better future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u25	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u26	The year 2020-2021 was a rather new year of crisis, but also, in view of the health, economic and social crisis that we are going through, a year of challenges. In the face of this major crisis with unprecedented economic consequences, France has responded by taking exceptional measures to combat the epidemic, giving priority to supporting household incomes and our economic and industrial fabric. However, this crisis will inevitably have a lasting impact on our economy and public finances: indeed, we make a very clear distinction between the pre-crisis period, that of the current crisis, and that of the return to normal. Therefore, sustaining the exit from the crisis requires in-depth reflection on the modernisation of our public finances. On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I shall therefore focus here on some concrete points, recalling part of the primary objectives and principles that we are defending. First of all, today we note a very worrying increase in debt due to the crisis of the covid-l9. The issue of debt repayment, whether linked to covid-19 or not, is becoming increasingly urgent as the post-crisis situation continues. This is a priority for us. It should be remembered that the public debt would rise by 190 billion euros to 117.2 points of GDP in 2021. As far as the government deficit is concerned, as has already been mentioned on several occasions, it amounts to €228 billion in 2021, compared to €212 billion in 2020. Given the magnitude of the deficits announced for 2020 and 2021, it is natural to ask what will happen next: will we have to repay this debt? If so, how? With the establishment of the Arthuis Commission for the Future of Public Finance, the debate took a surprising turn in France, with the idea of cancelling the debts held by the European Central Bank. Moreover, the Commission's work shows fairly well that if public spending continues to increase at the current rate, debt will continue to rise in the coming years, in most plausible scenarios of economic growth. Without the prospect of stabilization, the situation would appear untenable in the long term. Indeed, if we do not have more room for manoeuvre to meet the challenges of tomorrow, such as the ecological transition or the emergence of a future crisis, we will be forced to be linked to rising interest rates in the short and medium term. The Government has made the choice to continue to strongly support income and boost the economy through temporary spending, but also through permanent reductions in compulsory levies, including production taxes, and through sustained increases in expenditure, in particular with salary increases in health and medical-social facilities. While we welcome these exceptional measures, it must be noted that between 2017 and 2019, no real initiative to clean up the state's accounts has been impulsed, even though it would have been more opportune during this period of growth to clean up our public finances. This would have limited the explosion of the current debt. In the course of the budget debates, our group has repeatedly proposed that we reflect on the reduction of operating expenditure so as not to increase taxes, but unfortunately our proposals have not been echoed. In particular, we proposed reducing advisory commissions and rationalizing State agencies, or acting on the cumulation, for some senior officials, of allowances with retirement pensions. To show political responsibility and voluntarism also means not losing sight of the balance of our public finances: we must be able to go beyond the only prospect of a cyclical recovery. Thus, we must be vigilant and careful so that, as we keep repeating, we do not sacrifice future generations. The evolution of the economic situation and the principle of reality suggesting that no reversal of the trend will be observed before the next presidential election, it is necessary for a pragmatic debate on debt repayment to take place. The level of the deficit in 2021 remains subject to very high uncertainties, mainly related to the evolution of the epidemic, but also to revenues, due to difficulties in anticipating the proceeds of certain taxes. In view of the already high level of taxes and the tax matriculation suffered during the previous quinquennium, it is not possible to increase compulsory levies; However, the government's promise not to do so leaves us dubious. Thus, the President of the Republic did not specify how the measures announced on Monday would be financed. The only resource mentioned, namely the decline in the retirement age, remains hypothetical. Priority should therefore be given to controlling public expenditure, so that it progresses less rapidly than revenue. This mastery must also be sustained, because it is illusory to imagine reducing or even rapidly stabilising our debt, except in exceptional macroeconomic circumstances during the recovery phase. However, with regard to such a long-term strategy, we find ourselves largely disarmed. Indeed, regardless of the indicator chosen – actual deficit, structural deficit, public debt – French finances are among the most affected by the crisis in the European Union. According to Eurostat data, in 2020 our actual deficit was the fifth largest of the nineteen countries in the euro area, exceeding the average of this area by 2 points of GDP and the German deficit by 5 points. Between austerity and responsibility, the search for a balance is not simple. Reducing debt by 2030 is a hard-to-be goal. The Government must avoid compromising the recovery by too fast a fiscal adjustment, as well as overburdening deficits; It must promote growth, which will make debt more sustainable, without neglecting to make it greener, to align it with the ecological stakes of our time. We are sincerely convinced that we can afford to do so. For our group, the reduction of public spending must come from a long-term vision, which will require active decentralization, simplification of our bureaucracy, and a refocusing of the state on its sovereign missions. The financial crisis has unfortunately revealed all that French bureaucratic centralism can have absurd and counterproductive. There is a need for a new law on public finance programming, with performance and evaluation objectives that would prevent us from putting things back to tomorrow. The governance of our public finances still needs to be improved: short-term, it leads us to focus on ad hoc fiscal plan policies, to the detriment of medium- or long-term structural reforms; It is not transparent, it does not allow our fellow citizens an informed debate. The overwhelming majority of French people regard themselves as ill-informed about public debt. However, we would like to welcome the tabling by Mr Woerth, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, and Mr Saint-Martin, his rapporteur-general, of a proposal for an organic law on the modernisation of public financial management. We also welcome the establishment of an annual public debt debate; We are defending the enlargement of the parliamentary debate with a view to democratic appropriation of public finance issues. [[Charles de Courson applauds]] In conclusion, let us bear in mind the idea that this crisis is an opportunity for France to modernise its rules of budgetary governance, and for us to put the way in which the state operates down, so that we can anticipate future challenges related to the ecological transition, digital transition, research, education or vocational training. Let's go beyond this: embarking on real structural reforms, which give us greater budgetary visibility. Let us use this crisis to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. We're at a turning point. The sustainability of public finances will no doubt be one of the major subjects of debate in 2022: that it become so even now, because it must never be forgotten that it concerns future generations. At some point, the debt will have to be repaid. Let us avoid false promises such as unfunded announcements, or our country will be destined to live beyond its means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u27	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u28	Perhaps you know the famous sentence of André Maurois of the Académie française: "Governments are the age of their finances, as men are the age of their arteries". I am therefore sorry to point out to you that with a public deficit of 9.4% of GDP, and although the Minister has just announced a 9% reassessment, the Government is reaching a canonical age. In fact, are we engaged in a budgetary policy debate, or in a debate of budgetary disorientation? How did we get there? I will try to draw lessons from the past, that is, from the period 2017-2021, before leaving it to my colleague Michel Castellani to tell you about the future. We are gathered here, the day after our national holiday, to answer a question: at the end of his term, will the elected candidate Emmanuel Macron have improved the situation of our public finances? The policy debate on public finances should, in principle, inform us on this issue. The preparatory report transmitted by the Government to Parliament – with a supplementary note arrived at five o'clock in the morning: we had never seen that! – looks like a balance sheet, and this balance sheet, minister, minister delegate, looks like that of a company in difficulty: you are at the head of a bankrupt state. I would like to deconstruct a myth right now. You suggest that the first years of the quinquennium have made it possible to redress our finances, whose very sharp deterioration from 2020 would be due only to the crisis. Of course, between 2017 and 2019, you have undertaken efforts, supported by the Libertés et territoires group. However, they have been far too limited. According to your own documents, the structural effort made during the first three years of the quinquennium was limited to about 0.2 points of GDP, or at most 5 billion, per year; to count broadly, let us put 6 billion. This is a quarter of what would have been needed: the annual budgetary effort had to be 0.8 percentage points of GDP, or 20 billion, to redress public finances. Many have forgotten this: this was your commitment, in July 2017, in the context of this same budgetary policy debate! Your shortcomings of yesterday are, therefore, partly at the root of the current situation and the extreme difficulties that lie ahead. The crisis has caused many ills, but it cannot justify everything. In addition, you welcome the fact that at the beginning of your term of office the deficit has fallen below 3% of GDP. That's right; However, this 3% rule is not adapted to the pre-crisis French economy, where the potential growth rate in volume ranged from 1.1% to 1.2% per year. France does not have the means for a budget deficit of more than 1.5% per year. Mr Minister, you yourself acknowledged in the Finance Committee the obsolescence of this 3% ceiling. Your triumphalism is therefore very excessive! I can make the same observation for our debt. It dangerously exceeds 118 points of GDP; But even before the crisis, the presentation of our public debt was distorted by the explosion of issuing premiums. The amount of these, net of the discounts, exceeded 30 billion in 2020 alone; Their stock, still net of haircuts, has grown – stand still – from 42 billion at the beginning of 2017 to 98 billion at the 3rd of June 2021, from less than 2% of GDP to 4%! Thus, contrary to what you have said, the debt burden, far from decreasing, has increased steadily between 2017 and 2019: only, the Maastrichtian accounting system unfortunately does not include these premiums, which, by means of an accounting illusion, makes public debt appear less important. Just as 2020 and 2021, 2022 will be a year of open budget bar: never two without three, minister! As with your predecessors, the last initial five-year finance law will overflow with electoral measures at often undervalued cost. Those announced on Monday evening by the President of the Republic, those you have just added to it, the new investment support plan, the commitment income for young people and its potential cost of 2.3 billion, will add to the bill. You are losing a little more in the uncontrolled rise in public spending. In its opinion on the first amending finance bill for 2021, the High Council for Public Finance (HCFP) warned you that it was an increase of 41 billion in ordinary expenditure. In other words, you have abandoned any effort to master. Where are the savings that will fund new spending? In the absence of profound structural reforms, the restoration of our public finances will never be achieved. Your announcements, your promises, are mostly uncertain: I am thinking in particular of pension reform. Where are the structural economies again? I don't see any. In the preparatory report, you indicate that your steering of the exit from crisis is based on a return to control of the rate of growth of public expenditure in volume. You even announce a 0.7% content rate. First of all, let me point out to you that this is only a smaller increase: you stop this progress, you do not stop it. In addition, this mastery effort must begin in 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u29	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u30	Neither you nor I are able to say who will exercise power on that date; In other words, you postpone all efforts to the post-presidential. You are like the cicada in the famous fable of Jean de La Fontaine:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u31	Isn't that the ant?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u32	[[The chairman of the committee applauds]] ...the kiss came and you find yourself very devoid. I wish the Minister of Finance, who will succeed you, with courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u33	Thank you, Monsieur de Courson, despite your extensive understanding of your speaking time – I would even call it an inflationist! Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u34	As we have just completed our consideration of the first amending finance bill of the year and its series of emergency or recovery measures, this debate has the merit of getting us a little higher. At this time when everything is subject to the vagaries of the health crisis, to see clearly, to have a compass, becomes more than ever an overriding necessity. Where do we come from? Where are we? Where are we going? Like any crisis, it should have its advantages: for example, allowing you to judge the validity of your financial trajectory, to see the possible failures of your past budgetary choices, and to correct the shot if necessary. However, this capacity for self-criticism does not seem to be among your virtues. No change of course is announced. Why change, after all? If I believe the preparatory report, your expenditure control policies would indeed have been very successful. From 2017 to 2019, any decline: the deficit, the debt, the levy rate and consequently the taxes, in a massive and healthy way – because their decrease, according to the same report, would have led to an increase in the purchasing power of households, consumption and investments. In short, the fiscal and economic paradise, plus room for manoeuvre to cope with the crisis! Allow me to return to earth by supplementing or otherwise interpreting the data. First of all, paradise is not for everyone: as Victor Hugo wrote, "It is from the hell of the poor that the paradise of the rich is made." For the former, nothing; for the latter, a saving of 4,500 euros per year. Up to 192000 euros of additional income for the richest 1%, while there were 400,000 more poor. It doesn't shock anyone anymore! Secondly, investments are far from being the result of the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF) and its compensation through the single flat-rate levy (SPF), which on the contrary increased shareholders' income at the expense of companies' self-financing capacities. Moreover, if there is investment, these are going out rather than inward. The reason: a highly degraded competitiveness in 2020, according to a laboratory of employers' ideas. Indeed, according to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, it can no longer focus on the least-called tax, but on the quality of infrastructure, the education system, training, which is either investment or public expenditure. However, from 55% to 53.4% of our GDP, this expenditure has been reduced by almost EUR 50 billion or even by 78 billion if social security and communities are included. Of course, this is one of your wishes, shared from Brussels to Elysée, partially satisfied! But this way of controlling public spending has mainly weakened the country in the face of the crisis; It's the other side of the medal. One example shows this, that of our hospitals. They were already in the bone before the crisis, with an ONDAM contained below 2.5% for years, when needs involved an increase of 4.5% per year. As for the response to the crisis, let me cite two examples to illustrate its economic and social insanity. Firstly, aid per billion unconditionally for the CAC40, which was able to pay 51 billion euros in dividends in 2021 while providing for the elimination of almost 30,000 jobs. Then, 10 billion of a new tax gift to large polluter companies, for a multiplier effect of 0.3. Indeed, Minister Delegate, this is enough to stimulate our economy while responding to the climate emergency! As a result, an additional 1 million poor people, anaemic public spending, degraded revenues, and even no results on the competitiveness front. As for the climate... All this is absurd, but you insist. On the horizon, the ever-changing control of public spending in order to regain equilibrium and always the same increasingly bitter remedy, the contraction of public spending by a carcan similar to ONDAM: with growth limited to 0.7%, public expenditure is down on GDP but above all on future needs. As health instability increases, while liberal economists suggest putting an additional 60 billion on the table for precarious households, you are already emerging the reform of unemployment insurance and the breakdown of pensions. Mr Minister Delegate, ladies and gentlemen, when the daily augurs serve as forecasts, when ideological blindness serves as a compass, it is indeed difficult to change course. That is regrettable because, I am sure, we are going into the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u35	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u36	Like that of 2021, this public finance policy debate for 2022 is of a particular nature because of the health crisis, which is still present. From now on, we want to think about the revival and future of France. Before addressing the specificities of the 2022 finance bill, I would like to reiterate the responsiveness of the Government since the beginning of the health crisis. It has undertaken rapid, massive and exceptional support and support measures. There are many areas supported: I am thinking in particular of employment, businesses or people whose situation is particularly precarious. It is now known that without this support of nearly €74 billion for emergency measures, the crisis would have dramatic consequences for all French people. I am pleased that in 2020 the purchasing power of the French increased by 0.4 per cent and that the household savings rate exploded, reaching more than 21 per cent. The French saved EUR 110 billion in the first half of 2020, compared to EUR 33 billion in the second half of 2019. Consumption, on the other hand, fell by 7.2% in 2020. Although necessary, the aid has a serious impact on state finances, with a public debt of 115 % of GDP in 2020, or around €2650 billion. I am convinced that the state will have to gradually move out of the "no matter what it costs" and turn to more targeted support for those who need it most. Minister Bruno Le Maire told us this morning that it is now necessary to be tailor-made. The finance bill for 2021 was dedicated to the crisis. The finance bill for 2022 must look to the future of France and the French. I share the Government's view that we need to reinvigorate economic growth and return to pre-crisis activity. Growth forecasts are 6 per cent for 2021 and 4 per cent for 2022, but these figures depend, of course, on the changing health environment. For this reason, vaccination still needs to be accelerated to protect all of us, protect the most fragile and protect our economy. The key word of the year 2022 will be the revival. It has already started with the roll-out of the recovery plan, of which €40 billion has already been committed. By 2022, the growth of the next decade will have to continue, notably by supporting household purchasing power, reducing unemployment in all territories and making ambitious public investments. For the past four years, despite the crisis of yellow vests and the crisis of the covid -19, we have also pursued structural reforms favourable to activity. They help support future growth and will continue to do so under the PLF by 2022. Among the measures of the PLF, there is one which attracts my particular attention: the green budget, initiated on the occasion of the PLF for 2021, will be deepened in 2022. This tool, which is truly unique in the world, was to analyse the environmental impact of 574 billion euros of budgetary and fiscal expenditure in 2021. The green budget of 2022 will be more ambitious and will have to expand the scope of listed expenditures. This is in line with the pursuit of environmental commitments, which are so dear to our majority. I am fully convinced that environmental issues will need to be integrated into the post-crisis environment today. One third of the recovery plan is devoted to the ecological transition. The European Union, for its part, played a fundamental role with the establishment of the Facility for Recovery and Resilience, which finances our national recovery plan to the tune of 40%. Among the European countries, France is the third largest beneficiary. In 2022, the state will have to focus on three points. It will first have to set priorities among its spending, in particular to the benefit of its privileged areas – defence, security, justice and education – whose resources have already increased since 2017. An additional €6.9 billion has been allocated to the Defence Mission since 2017, under the Military Programming Act, and an additional €4.3 billion has been allocated to the School Education Mission. Second, the state will have to control its public spending in order to reduce the deficit and debt. The objective is not to increase public expenditure by more than 0.7% per year until 2027. Finally, the state will have to continue to increase the purchasing power of the French. Household consumption is expected to increase by 5.7 per cent in 2022. I am pleased that the health crisis has not undermined the actions taken since the beginning of the quinquennium not to increase the taxes of the French. Indeed, the removal of the housing tax and the reductions in income tax, corporate tax and production taxes have largely benefited households and businesses. I would also like to draw your attention to the industry. As early as July 2020, the €35 billion competitiveness component of the recovery plan put France on the road to industrial relocation and reindustrialization. We must continue to create jobs, foster the development of high-value-added activities and innovate in all areas. Our country is already at the top of the European ranking in digital and technology, but our efforts must continue and we must aim even further. In the field of health, French research will be supported, agriculture will be local, connected and organic, and the automotive sector will be "zero emissions". I deeply believe that France has a promising future in the green industry; We need to reconnect with a production ecology. I see in France of tomorrow a great independent industrial nation, which reconciles ecology and economy. From this perspective, the theme of reindustrialization will be central in 2022. This government, Minister Delegate, has never done so much for the industry. Before the crisis of the covid-19, the industry recreated jobs after losing them for 15 years. As Finance Commissioner, I will be particularly vigilant about the successful execution of the PLF by 2022. In conclusion, I would like to stress the budgetary sincerity that we are demonstrating. It has been a genuine trademark since the beginning of the quinquennium and guarantees a fair allocation of our expenses. The various PLFs have all been sincere budgets and we have proven that we are holding on to our commitments. Every year, during the three years preceding the crisis, we have controlled the debt of the state and public accounts while lowering taxes and improving the purchasing power of the French. We are now continuing with the same objectives, making every effort to return as soon as possible to pre-crisis levels. The objectives of this PLF are ambitious, but are also marked by sincerity and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u37	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u38	[[Christine Pires Beaune applauds]] I confess that before I started my remarks, I wondered if I was going to pass my turn, given the context in which we are working. The desert aspect of the House this morning makes this debate lunar.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u39	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u40	Even though I'm a little annoyed, I'm going to lend myself to the exercise out of respect for the administrations and for my colleagues. We hoped that the difficulties in forecasting our next days would be limited to 2020, but the economic consequences of the crisis continued during the first six months of this year, despite the medical advances made. I recall that we needed four amending financial laws in 2020 and one already in 2021, which attests to the complexity of the current budgetary reality. But should we give up planning for the future we want for our country? Of course not. We cannot postpone this budgetary time of programming, which will be that of the projection in 2022 and, hopefully, of the return of health and economic stability for our country. In 2020, the Government launched a 100 billion recovery plan that complemented the support measures initiated in response to the crisis. The European Commission has just validated it, allowing a European contribution to be made to these measures until 2026. We voted for this recovery plan because it proposed not to alleviate the current difficulties, but to project ourselves in the future, to build the country and the economy of tomorrow. Let me therefore make a few additional remarks on behalf of the Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) Group and related democrats, mainly on debt. The crisis has broken the virtuous dynamic that we initiated, with an exceptional fall in economic activity. To finance emergency measures, debt has reached unprecedented and dizzying heights for future generations. The cost of the current covid -19 crisis can be estimated at EUR 171 billion, with many uncertainties as to how it will unfold in the coming months. Of this amount, emergency support expenditure and the recovery plan would amount to €91.2 billion, net of European funding in 2021. The budget deficit will exceed EUR 220 billion this year, which is 47 billion more than forecast in the original finance law. This increase is due to the reconstitution in March, which has had a leverage effect on solidarity and health schemes, as well as to the decline in tax and social revenues, which have been undermined by weak business performance. Investment by the latter also fell by 8%. Debt will weigh on future generations. It will be up to us, as well as our successors, to cultivate the spirit of responsibility in the years to come and to promote the repayment of the debt and the relief of the burden it represents. Important reforms will have to be carried out in this direction. In addition to debt reduction, we must continue to adapt the economy to the climate challenge: recovery must be an opportunity to accelerate the long-term transformation of our economy in the environmental field. Without pouring into impracticable incantation, nor in punitive logic, we must continue to accompany the actors in the coming months. The agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on the climate and resilience bill shows that this concern is shared on all benches. We must also ensure that the cohesion of society is maintained. Last year we created the fifth branch of social security to finance autonomy and, although pension reform could not succeed during this quinquennium, it remains a major project for the future of our country and our social contract: we reach the limits of the capabilities of the current system. Finally, we will have to ensure that we maintain an attractive tax and regulatory environment and maintain leading digital and mobility infrastructures linked to all territories. The year 2021 will be that of the exit from the crisis, with the continued deployment of the France Recovery Plan and, according to INSEE's forecasts, a rebound in consumption and economic recovery. The path we have planned for the stability programme 2021-2027 remains relevant, as you have pointed out, Mr President of the Committee on Finance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Michel Castellani and Mrs Lise Magnier also applaud]] This autumn's fiscal year will have to reflect the exit from the health crisis and the normalisation of the fiscal year. It will also have to return to the momentum driven by the Government and the majority in order to return to the path of growth and consolidation of public finances. The territories will have to be at the heart of the declines in this policy, due to societal reorientations at work and the need to continue deconcentration and decentralization. That is why the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) is in favour of pursuing this budgetary policy, which it will support with vigilance, while at the same time being a force for proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u41	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u42	My colleague Patricia Lemoine has fully expressed the position of the Group of the European People's Party on the orientation of public finances. I will therefore confine myself to a few comments – essential, in my view – on the management of public funds. First of all, I would like to return to the central issue of public debt, which rightly worries our fellow citizens and which we have already had the opportunity to address on a number of occasions in the House. As a reminder, public debt amounted to 115 % of GDP, or 2650 billion euros, in 2020 and is expected to reach 117 % of GDP by 2021. These impressive figures bear witness to the violence of the crisis. However, it is not possible to maintain such debt ratios for several years to come. In this regard, we welcome the Government's public accounts recovery path outlined in the stability agenda. Such a trajectory seems indispensable to us, because the uncertainties that weigh on debt sustainability are real. I am thinking in particular of interest rates, which, for the time being, make it possible to borrow at a lower cost, but which could cause real difficulties if they were to rise sharply. I am also thinking of the credibility of our signature vis-à-vis the markets. Public debt is primarily a matter of trust: if it breaks down because public accounts are not held, the economy can engage in a spiral of distrust with devastating effects. The path of control of public finances is based on two pillars: on the one hand, growth, which we will have to stimulate by maintaining the economic policy pursued since 2017 and by continuing to deploy the recovery plan quickly; On the other hand, control of public expenditure. This second condition is by far the most difficult to meet. I wish you a great deal of courage, Mr Delegated Minister responsible for Public Accounts, because, if I believe the press, this year you are facing an explosion in demand for expenditure! However, by 2023, the growth of public expenditure by volume, excluding emergency and recovery, will have to fluctuate between 0.5% and 0.7% per year. For those who know that this growth rate averaged 1.4 per cent over the period 2007-2012 and 1 per cent over the period 2012-2017, this represents a significant effort. To keep this course, political courage will be required in order to carry out the necessary reforms and identify the priority policies – for if governance is to be planned, it is first and foremost to choose. In this regard, we welcome the first directions of the finance bill set out in the preparatory document for this debate. I am thinking in particular of improving the purchasing function of the State and its operators and of strengthening deconcentration – both in budgetary terms and in human resources – which will contribute to the transformation of public action. We also welcome the emphasis placed on the Regalian since the beginning of the legislature. Finally, I would like to return to the specific situation of local and regional authorities. While the deterioration of local public finances has been less severe than anticipated, the crisis will leave stigmas behind. The government's support, which we have completed as we move forward with the Financial Reform Bills, has made it possible to absolve the shock. Beyond the consequences of the crisis, the functioning of local public finances should be rethought. The rationalization of local taxes or their reduction offset by a State revenue levy has led to the loss of local authorities' power over rates. It is therefore necessary to design as soon as possible a model combining the financial autonomy of local authorities and tax efficiency. We therefore believe that the issue of the link between the citizen and the local elected official should be addressed in a new light. [[Patricia Lemoine and Jean-Paul Mattei applaud]] You will therefore be able to count, Minister Delegate, on the Action Group to be a force for proposals and to help you restore public finances in all sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u43	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u44	The public finance policy debate is a budgetary ritual. We regret that it will be held this year after 14 July, which certainly does not contribute to the publicity of our work. This situation is all the more damaging since it will rarely have been so difficult to draw up the financial perspective for the next budget: this annual exercise is disrupted by the context, full of uncertainties, and by the deteriorating state of public finances. With a GDP of 2300 billion, a debt of 2600 billion, and public spending of over 1470 billion euros, we understand that things are not simple and there is no room for manoeuvre. I will not go back to the cost and relevance of emergency measures: we felt that they were necessary and we confirm that view. You are announcing in extremis an increase in pilotable expenditure of 10.6 billion. You are already covered by expenditure under various programming laws: €1.7 billion for defence, €320 million for justice and €470 million for research. In addition, the latest announcements by the President of the Republic were made. I am thinking in particular of the income of commitment, the contours that are still unclear, which would replace the youth guarantee – which is not really universal. The cost of the measure would, if we understood correctly, amount to more than EUR 2 billion. Other proposals are in the right direction. Our group would like to recall its support for measures dedicated to teachers and young people seeking employment. However, it is not prohibited to question the cost of these measures and how they are financed. In this regard, our group can only worry about the lack of clear leads. Who will pay the debt related to the covid epidemic -19? How can we make up for the backlog? These are essential, and even central, issues. At the moment, we do not see any response, especially since you have given up – and rightly so – the plan to abolish 120,000 civil servants and now aim to stabilize public employment. In addition, you have already granted 2.6 billion euros of block measures as part of your wage policy. Therefore, savings will not come from this side. Moreover, the forecast growth, even if revised upwards and increased to 6% – in a highly hypothetical way, moreover – will not make it possible to finance these new measures. So we have to find other ways. The IMF and the OECD propose an increase in the last tranches of the succession scale or the creation of an exceptional contribution for the most affluent natural persons. These leads will probably have to be explored. You have indicated your opposition to any tax increases – even if you have extended the social debt repayment (SDR) contribution, which is an implicit tax increase. However, it is necessary to introduce a dose of fiscal solidarity in your recovery strategy, as it would be necessary to concentrate the investment effort – which will be part of the investment plan promised in September – on sectors with strong leverage and structural implications. I am thinking of infrastructure, renewable energy or the country's necessary reindustrialization. In the same vein, in order to reinforce solidarity between the State and the communities, our group recommends strengthening the territorial dimension of the recovery plan: as we have pointed out on several occasions, certain particularly affected territories, such as Corsica or the overseas communities, must receive appropriate aid. The next FLP will also have to give priority to ecological transition. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the important environmental aspect of the recovery plan, although the 2021 budget still contains too many environmentally-friendly expenditure. We are also wondering, minister, how you intend to limit the burden of brown taxation, which is likely to run counter to efforts to green the budget. I also note that the timetable for structural reforms, in particular for pensions, remains distant. It is true that it does not seem desirable to carry out such a reform now, when the effects of the crisis are far from being extinguished and economic actors need stability. Therefore, exercise 2022 remains unclear and the preparatory report submitted by the Government does not provide a basis for our reflection: while volume 2 had nearly one hundred pages in 2017, this year it is limited to five pages, including two blank pages, to which we must add two reports submitted today at five o'clock in the morning! In these circumstances, it is difficult to assess the situation. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing two pious wishes: that the Government should be more transparent in the coming months and, above all, that it should not make the 2022 budget a budget marked by the presidential election, but a project for recovery and recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u45	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u46	History is marked by profound changes in society, initiated in the aftermath of drama, crises or wars – moments when the powerful winds allow the skilful Timorese to engage in sharper and faster evolutions. These developments are the main milestones of history, often for the best, but also, sometimes, for the worst. Therefore, while it is essential this year to redouble our audacity in the face of the challenges facing us, it is also essential to do so with caution, bearing in mind that the decisions we are making today involve not only the future of our children, but also their freedom to make their own choices. A foresight has no meaning without context: to understand where you're going, you have to understand where you're coming from. The year 2020, out of standard in all respects, required the deployment of devices of exceptional budgetary magnitude. It is essential to recall that the fact that we were able to ensure the health and economic security of the French during the crisis is precisely because, during the previous three years, we have been able to do so. Thanks to the reforms we have been carrying out since the beginning of the quinquennium, France has been able to tackle the covid-19 crisis in good economic and financial conditions: between 2017 and 2019, growth averaged 2% per year. Over the same period, both the public debt and the compulsory tax rate in relation to GDP decreased, with a tax reduction of 40 billion euros in four years: more housing tax for French and French people, less income tax for the middle classes, less labour taxes for workers, fewer levies on their savings and less taxes on the companies that employ them. Let us be lucid: it is the regained credibility of our country, which has become the first recipient of foreign investment in Europe, that has allowed the "no matter what it costs". This credibility is the result of the reforms undertaken in 2017, but also of a serious budget assumed. Our willingness to control public spending allowed France to leave the excessive deficit procedure in 2018, in which it had been stuck for too long. It is at this price – three years of reform and effort – that we have been able to secure the credibility of our country, so its room for manoeuvre to cope with the exceptional expenses that have been and are still necessary to protect the French. We must welcome this, of course, but we must also think about the future. A century ago, the der des der was not the last war. Today, it would be just as naive – if not irresponsible – to imagine that other crises, unpredictable by nature, will not come to the test again. Our duty is to ensure that France will then be able to react as effectively as it has done in the last eighteen months. Our responsibility is to ensure that a massive policy of supporting economic activity, maintaining employment and protecting all our citizens will be possible in 2025, 2030 or 2035 as it was in 2020. Of course, the consequences of the crisis on our public finances are immense: in 2020, the public deficit amounts to 9.2% of our national wealth and debt has increased by 18.1% – proportions unprecedented in contemporary history. This budgetary deflagration is the price of solidarity and protection, at a time when the nation has needed it most in three quarters of a century, but it is also the cost of restarting and transforming the economy. In December 2020, we launched this transformation by endorsing an unprecedented €100 billion recovery plan: €30 billion to finance the ecological transition, $34 billion to improve our competitiveness and create jobs and €36 billion to strengthen the cohesion of society and the territories. The France Plan is relaunching the choice of a decarbonised economy capable of facing the enormous challenges of the 21st century. It is also a concrete reality, from Marseilles to Dunkirk and Gustavia. Already in June, more than 10,000 MaPrimeRenov' files were accepted in the North to renovate housing, more than 16,000 green conversion bonuses were paid in Bouches-du-Rhône to encourage green mobility, 23 industrial projects were supported in Saône-et-Loire, and 50,000 digitisation grants were paid to very small enterprises (TPE) and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – throughout the territory. From the daily lives of our fellow citizens to the spreadsheets of Bercy and Brussels, not to mention the forecasts of the Banque de France, the revival is there, undeniable and exciting. It is there thanks to the action of the Government and the majority, but also thanks to a miracle: three tenths of a millilitre in a syringe, a vaccine that saves lives per million and gives us hope that, after the end of the crisis, we will now live the beginning of its end. So we look every day with more confidence towards tomorrow, towards next year, towards the future. That is why the debate we have today is of such importance. Emancipated from the immediate, we must now begin to rebuild our ability to cope with the unexpected. What strategy for the future of our public finances? First of all, we must deepen the consolidation of our competitiveness by persevering in our determination to carry out the necessary reforms. Since 2017, many construction sites have been opened: reduction of our overwhelming taxes, reform of vocational training, adoption of unemployment insurance, transformation of pensions. They're still up to date. We must continue with them, of course, taking into account the events that have shaken the world. Directly or indirectly, all these projects are essential to the recovery of our public finances. Minister-in-Office, allow me to free myself entirely, for a few moments, from the thematic closure that traditionally surrounds this exercise. On the day when the Republic succeeds in keeping the promise – more important than any other transformation, reform, fiscal evolution or economic measure – of a national education of excellence for all, the day when we will guarantee every child entering the education system the best education, the best training for him regardless of his origins, that day we can be perfectly calm on the social but also economic and financial perspectives of our country – the end of the digression. The economic crisis is fading, the emergency measures put in place in parallel to respond to it must do the same. Any increase in public expenditure must now focus exclusively on investments in the proper sense of the term. To do this, our public finances need to be better framed and readable in the long run – but also more readable in the first sense, i.e. intelligible. That is the meaning of the proposal for an organic law advocated by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the rapporteur-general for the budget that we will be discussing this afternoon in committee. The organization of public action, the responsibilities and resources of each individual, including communities, need to be clarified. The so-called 4D law – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and decomplexation – will contribute, which is beneficial. Finally, a debate on public finances cannot be held without reference to the European framework in which we operate. The courageous decisions taken by the President of the Republic in the fight against the health crisis must remind us of a rule of brass of any community: collective solidarity has as its corollary the indivisibility of individual responsibility, a requirement which also applies between European States. European solidarity has thus clearly manifested itself at the heart of the crisis through the immense advance of issuing a common debt. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] As the debate begins on the recasting of our budgetary framework rules, our ability to endorse this European solidarity will be proportional to our ability to strengthen our social and economic model while improving our public finances. This is the challenge we face. Let's get him back together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u47	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u48	To hear you, you've had everything good before and during the crisis and you'll still have everything good after that, since you're considering the same path. This permanent self-satisfaction becomes frightening as it seems to me out of step with the reality of the consequences of your actions. When you boast that you have controlled public spending for years, pretending that it would have allowed us to better cope with the crisis, we reach peaks! On the contrary, it is because of this policy that we have approached the crisis in such a bad position, not from the point of view of the level of dividends or profits of the CAC40 – which corresponds to you as the ultimate justice of the peace – but from the point of view of the means of the state and the mechanisms of solidarity. This policy has led in a few years to a reduction in government and community spending of almost 78 billion euros – too high in terms of GDP – leaving us totally unprepared for the crisis of the Covid-19. When you self-congratulate yourself for controlling public spending, you actually boast that you have led us to tackle this crisis without sufficient masks, beds and caregivers. For this is the concrete reality of your policy. Moreover, you dare to be proud of it, when the only beneficiaries of all these sacrifices were the richest in the country, the only ones who did not need your gifts. Yes, regardless of the figures to which we refer, the richest people have had extra income as the poverty rate increases in France. For example, the country's richest 0.01 per cent have seen your income increase by 192000 euros in a few years. Despite all these findings, your capacity for self-satisfaction is limitless, including when you talk about your management of the crisis. Of course, massive expenditures were made when the economy was at a standstill. I am thinking in particular of the partial unemployment scheme, noting in passing that companies have been exempted from what the previous speaker has called "social security charges" and which are social security contributions for me. As a result, a significant portion of the covid-19 debt on social debt was transferred. Such a measure was indispensable, but was it sufficient and satisfactory? We say no, because the very low interest rates of the moment make it possible to borrow without fear. But you preferred not to make the right choices in terms of finance. In this context, it would have been necessary to spend, on the one hand, by helping the poor much more, those who had – and still have – the most need, on the other hand by investing sustainably, so as to finance the ecological transition and the jobs it will create. On the contrary, you have preferred to spend too little if one considers the quantity, and too badly if one considers the quality of the choices made. If the amounts you know how to isolate to your advantage may seem impressive, you just have to step aside, take a step back and look at what is happening elsewhere to see that they are far from being up to the level. Let us compare these figures to those of the United States, for example. They spent the equivalent of 25% of their GDP to respond to the crisis while we barely spent the equivalent of 6% of ours. However, this is not only a problem of magnitude, since spending in the United States, mainly for the most vulnerable households, has reduced poverty from 14 per cent to 8 per cent, with no particular gain for the richest. At home, it's all the other way around. In this regard, the fine tirades we hear will not change the facts. In France, nothing – or so little – was done for the poorest, for popular consumption, so much so that some associations estimated that more than a million more people went below the poverty line in 2020, while that same year billionaires became even richer. I will give you a few figures that you already know: billionaires have seen their wealth increase by more than 55% between 2020 and 2021, while, according to Challenges, France's 500 largest fortunes have seen their fortune increase by 300 billion in 2020. The widening of inequalities reflects the inherently unfair nature of your policy. Even when it came to helping companies cope with the crisis, you only cared about the fate of the biggest companies. For the future, you are planning a reform of unemployment insurance and a reform of pensions. This means that you consider that, in the face of the loss of wealth production, which unfortunately will be rampant, it is the world of work that has to pay. In addition, you still claim to control the budget by putting in place an unprecedented austerity policy, marked by an increase in public spending of 0.7% over the next five years. This is worse than the policies that have been carried out so far and that have led us to where we are. In addition to this, there is the multi-year public expenditure standard, a sort of national gold rule set by an independent body, the HCFP, which obviously poses a democratic problem since it would represent an additional straitjacket imposed on Parliament. [[Mr. Jérôme Lambert applauds]] In short, faithful to yourself, you prepare your world for us, that is, an even more unjust, cruel and unequal world than before – and, moreover, more and more authoritarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u49	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u50	I would like to respond to a few speakers in the general discussion. First of all, I am aware that you are working, like us, under difficult conditions. The separate document was sent late to all parliamentarians – very early this morning – and I am the first to be sorry. To these apologies, which I extend to the national representative, I would like to add thanks to the members of my cabinet and to the departments of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, particularly to the management of the budget. I can assure you that between the last arbitrations and the time you received the shot separately, about a quarter of an hour has passed. This shows how difficult these arbitrations have sometimes been to render and mobilized all of my teams. We have prepared this public finance policy debate in a context of both confidence and concern. We are indeed confident about the recovery, which led Bruno Le Maire and I to refer in this debate to a 6% reassessment of growth in 2021, but also to the ability of our economy to return. At the same time, the climate is concerned because of the uncertainty that continues to exist with regard to the epidemic. That is why we are constantly pointing out that it is absolutely necessary for everyone to be vaccinated as quickly as possible, because this would help us to cope with a fourth wave. We have carried out this exercise in a particular context, characterized by freedom and constraints. Freedom is offered to us first of all by the ability we have had to finance ourselves in the markets. I will not go back to the various explanations, notably related to the recovery of public accounts between 2017 and 2020, but I want to stress the importance of the monetary policy pursued by the European Central Bank. President Christine Lagarde reiterated that she would continue to do so as long as the epidemic crisis is taking place, which makes our fiscal year more secure. The freedom I have mentioned is also due to the fact that the European Commission, for its part, has extended the application of the suspension clause for several European indicators, which refers to our own responsibility for the trajectory of public finances and prevents us collectively from hiding, as is sometimes the case, behind the European framework, at the time of arbitrating a particular decision. We did this by fixing some anchors. First of all, our goal is that 2021 will be able to end with a public deficit lower than that of 9.2% in 2020. We want it to be slightly less than 9% – and we think it will be. The second anchor we hold is the maintenance of our macroeconomic forecasts for the year 2022, a deficit of 5.3%, as foreseen by the STABP, the stability programme. The closer we get to the 5%, the better. The last anchor concerns the control of public expenditure, which involves both controlling ordinary expenditure, as much as possible – I will come back to it – and continuing some reforms and the stability of the state's employment pattern. Some of you have pointed out that there is a difference between the commitment made at the beginning of the quinquennium to remove 50,000 FTEs, full-time equivalents, from the public service, and what is planned today. The great debate held in 2019, the crisis, but also the decisions we have taken, have led us to reconsider certain elements. In response to President Valérie Rabault, I would like to make it clear that the Government does not share her concerns about the funding of the measures we have taken. Markets continue to show great confidence. The rate at which we borrow over ten years remains very close to zero. While we too have been able to feed fears a few weeks ago about a sharp rise in interest rates, they now seem to be somewhat remote in view of the stability and even the slight decline in interest rates. Our goal is to return to the production level of 2022 by the end of 2021 and to work to improve our potential growth. In response to some of the interventions, I would add that we are convinced that the loss of potential growth will be limited to the effects of the crisis in 2020 and 2021 and that maintaining the productive fabric, notably by financing partial activity at a high level, by the EMPs, by aid to enterprises and by the effects of the recovery, will enable us to regain a potential growth level of 1.35%. I would now like to reply to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance on the abolition of the emergency plan mission in the face of the health crisis, which is planned in the context of the public finance policy debate, with a view to the PLF 2021. First of all, I would like to say that this measure reflects our objective of ending the epidemic crisis and our hope that, after the gradual cessation of emergency aid, such a mission will no longer be necessary. That being said, if the situation were to deteriorate – what no one wants – we could reintroduce it before the PLF vote. I recall that this mission was not likely to continue beyond last year and that it was the prolongation of the epidemic that led the Government to propose the reopening of the epidemic within the framework of the last PLF. Mrs Lebon, first of all, I would like to thank you because you are one of the only two opposition Members to have attended the whole of this debate – by the way, I can tell Mr Mattei how much I share his feeling – but, although I welcome your presence, I cannot give your guidance or your comments, especially when you are talking about austerity. Indeed, austerity, which would result in an increase in ordinary government spending of more than 10 billion euros when it could have been limited to 6 billion or 6.5 billion in previous years, does not seem to me to be one. I would like to remind you of the commitments made and financed: more than EUR 1.7 billion for the Ministry of National Education, almost EUR 300 million for the Ministry of Culture, more than EUR 500 million for the Ministry of Higher Education and Research and more than a billion for the Ministry of Ecological Transition – and we are renewing mechanisms that have proved their worth in the framework of the recovery plan, among others MaPrimeRénov'. The Government is honouring all its commitments, particularly with regard to the increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH) and the minimum old age, which was decided two years ago. The only declining budget appropriations are due to the evolution of the CSPE – the contribution to the public electricity service – and not to the will of the Government, all the efforts made in the matter of decarbonisation resulting in a decrease in the State contribution by 2022 and, for demographic reasons, to the gradual decrease in the number of beneficiaries of State pensions and former combatants pensioners. But I must point out that some of the funds allocated to this last mission have been recycled to finance a new measure, which will allow my colleague Geneviève Darrieussecq to implement a re-evaluation of the military disability pension, which the fighting world has long expected. I would like to mention two other examples that are of particular interest to me: the first concerns equality between women and men, since, after a 40 % increase in the budget for which my colleague Elisabeth Moreno can direct in 2021, a further 25 % increase is foreseen; The second, of course, concerns justice, the budget of which increased by 8% in 2021 and will increase all the more in 2022, well beyond what is provided for in the programming law and which would have led only to an increase of less than 3%, because we are convinced of the need to give priority to this public policy. The last point I would like to highlight in terms of what the next FLP will be, of course, is the work that we will have to do on the investment plan, both at national and Community level, to define its means of financing – budgetary or fiscal, or through the mobilisation of actors such as the Public Investment Bank, the mobilisation of tools such as the Investment Programme for the Future (PIA) – according to its objectives, but also the duration of its application, and on the other hand, the income of commitment. Finally, in reply to Charles Amédée de Courson, the second opposition Member of Parliament to have attended this whole debate, I would like to say that we remain extremely committed to the trajectory that we are facing. Despite the uncertainties I have not sought to conceal, there is a willingness on our part to control the budget and also to carry out the policies for which the President of the Republic was elected, which leads us to increase the ordinary expenditure of the State and to pay particular attention to the implementation of all the commitments made in the recovery plan. And that is why I can assure you every day, honourable Member, that I am working step by step to ensure that emergency measures do not become lasting measures; and if we were led for the sake of efficiency and for its success in renewing this plan in 2022, our objective would obviously remain the same: to avoid the sedimentation of new layers of public expenditure. I stress that what we did before the crisis allows us to be credible in this regard. As I said in my opening remarks, meeting the targets for deficit levels, reducing the burden of public spending and mandatory levies in 2018 and 2019 has marked a shift: the decline in the debt burden relative to GDP, which has not occurred in many years, as many speakers have pointed out. This makes the announcements we make even more credible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, we will meet next week to discuss two proposals for an organic law and two proposals for an ordinary law on State finances and social security finances, and you know how much the Government supports your work. There will, of course, be debates, discussions of amendments, with the aim that we can all end up in the end. This is an opportunity to translate at the organic level what Mrs Magnier has stressed, namely that Parliament and the Government must show courage to respond to a deterioration in public finances in order to allow our country, if not to anticipate it, at least to face a new crisis, whatever its nature, with more assets and more effective tools. The Government has the courage to do so, and it can count on the support of your assembly, since the courage of two is more effective. Thank you all and meet in a few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u51	The public finance policy debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-15-E1010.u52	Next meeting, Monday, 19 July, at 4 p.m.: Proposal for an organic law on the management of public finances; Proposal for a law on the High Council for Public Finance and on the information of the Parliament on public finances; Proposal for an organic law and a proposal for an ordinary law on social security financing laws. The meeting is adjourned.
