ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2022 (No. 4482, 4524).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to culture (No 4524, Annexes 10 and 11; No 4597, Volume I). Mrs Dominique David, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u3	The finance bill (PLF) for 2022 confirms the unprecedented public support in the world, since the beginning of the crisis, for the cultural sector. In addition to the EUR 101 million envelope under the Recovery Plan, there is a cumulative budget for the three programmes which I am responsible for by almost 2.5 billion, an increase of 11.4% over 2021. This increase, which has been absolutely unprecedented for more than ten years, confirms the more than essential place culture occupies in our public policies. In the field of creation, the increase is 54 million euros. In this report, I wanted to pay particular attention to the visual arts sector. With a budget of almost ten times less than the live show, it is, it must be said, the poor parent of our public cultural policies. Also hard hit by the crisis, this sector, which has many disadvantaged artists, has not benefited as fully as expected from public support. Access to the solidarity fund has been delayed by administrative complexities linked to the diversity and weak structuring of the sector. Sectoral aid – i.e. the funds of the exceptional income guarantee fund, operated by the National Centre for Plastic Arts (CNAP) – have been under-consumpted. That's a problem. In a more structural way, the visual arts suffer from the free practice that penalizes them and explains the precariousness of many artists. The public authorities do not always give the example: I regret that the rule of "1% of the public order", which requires that the construction or extension of public buildings be reserved for the realization of one or more original works designed specifically for the place, is very poorly respected throughout the territory. I would like to point out that respecting this commitment is, beyond the fine declarations of intent, one of the most effective ways of helping artists and I invite my colleagues to check in their constituency how this provision is being respected. On the other hand, I welcome the stated desire to finally enforce the right of presentation, which leads to the remuneration of an author artist when his work is presented, as is the case for the broadcasting of an audiovisual work. The question of the remuneration of artists during the production phase is also at the heart of the reflections of the Directorate-General for Artistic Creation (DGCA). It's not just about the visual arts, but things are moving in the right direction. I will have the opportunity to defend amendments to support this sector during the examination of the non-attached articles that will take place next week: an amendment to exempt all authors from corporate property taxes (CFE), the tax administration continues to claim payment for certain aesthetics – a clarification is needed; and an amendment proposing the extension to the liberal professions of the five-year deduction for the acquisition of an original work of a living artist. More broadly, in terms of creation, the crisis will have revealed the extent to which the question of structuring the channels conditions public support. And that, in my view, will be one of the major issues in cultural policy over the next few years. With regard to programme 361 Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture, the increase in the appropriations allocated to it in the PLF for 2022 is mainly due to the increase of EUR 140 million in the pass culture. Criticised – I will reply earlier to several amendments to the oppositions aimed at removing it – it is yet an unprecedented initiative which, for the first time, takes the practices and expectations of young people as a starting point. This is a real demand support policy that allows, in a way, to accompany the first steps towards culture, even if it is not the culture that parents, teachers, professionals or politicians plebiscite. For, after all, in terms of culture as elsewhere, is it not the first step that counts, Madam Minister? Eighty per cent of young people over the age of 18 have already registered for this scheme. In 2022, the pass culture will be extended to young people from the fourth class. They will first have to use it in a collective setting, supervised by their teacher; Then, over the years, they will become independent. This is the mediation that many call for of their wishes: linking artistic education to the pass culture, it is the very meaning of emancipation that is at the heart of our project. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel and Mrs Béatrice Descamps also applaud]] When, finally, I hear that these 140 million would be better in the caisses of cultural structures, I reply that it is up to them to imagine offers that attract young people, to see these credits return to their caisses. But we'll get back to it. I therefore invite you to vote for the exceptionally upgraded appropriations for the Culture mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u4	Mr Gilles Carrez, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u5	With 1.25 billion euros, the budget for the heritage in 2022 is very high. This amount is due not only to the usual appropriations of the 175 programme, but also and above all to the funding linked to the recovery plan. As far as programme 175 is concerned, it should be noted that the major operations which are the subject of multiannual master plans and financing, such as Versailles, Fontainebleau, the renovation project of the Centre Georges-Pompidou which is starting or that of the Grand-Palais. It should also be noted that there is an additional effort for the cathedrals that were very much needed, particularly in the area of security – this will amount to some EUR 40 million – and some additional funds dedicated to the National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research (INRAP). However, the real problem, Madam Minister, as you know, is that of the impact of the health crisis on our major operators: the Louvre, Versailles, the Musée d'Orsay and even, in a way, the Centre for National Monuments (CMN). Indeed, the situation observed in 2021 is worse than that of 2020 and it is to be expected in 2022 that major financial difficulties will probably continue in 2023, or even beyond – I do not know if you and I, the minister, will still be there. Why such a situation? Because we have developed over time for these large operators – and this is a good thing – a policy of own resources through ticketing, commercial shares or sponsorship. Taking the example of the Louvre or, even more so, of Versailles, these policies worked very well since own resources covered about 80% of expenditure. However, they came from an essentially international association. But this foreign clientele has not returned and it will probably not come back soon, or in any case only very gradually. We were talking about it a moment ago, Madam Minister, we will have to ask ourselves about the limits of this model, especially since it is legitimate for public funds to take over from failing own resources. As far as the recovery plan is concerned, the very large amount of EUR 227 million foreseen in 2022 reflects continued support for large operators and, half – 125 million – the acceleration of construction projects. However, I would like to mention a figure for large operators: if we refer to the period 2020-2022, we see a total revenue loss of 750 million euros. However, this sum is only covered by three quarters, and again thanks to a supplementary appropriation which has just been decided and which will be voted on – the Finance Committee is considering it this morning – as part of the 169 million year-end collective. If, therefore, the appropriations, which are necessary and legitimate, are properly recorded, I shall make three observations to conclude this brief intervention. The first is that I went to DRACs to see how the deconcentrated credits were used. It should be noted that your department has important regional branches, which play a key role in deconcentration – this is a huge asset – due to the near-disappearance of equipment, expertise, urban planning and architecture services, all of which are now assumed by the DRACs. However, they are fed through so-called operational programme budgets (BOPs) in the jargon of the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLFs) which come from the 175 Heritages programme, but also from the 363 Competitiveness programme of the Recovery Plan. It seems that at the local level the deconcentrated services fail to merge the two programs: you would have to look at this problem. My second observation concerns INRAP. With the resumption, the risk of bottling operations is real: you probably remember, Madam Minister, that about ten years ago all the local elected representatives were standing up against the institute because the diagnosis of preventive archaeology was slow to come, thereby differentiating the work. Above all, this situation should not happen again, and I would like to draw your attention to this point, although I note the few additional appropriations granted to INRAP. Thirdly, with regard to the maintenance of historic monuments, we are currently encountering bottlenecks, not only in terms of manpower, but also in terms of materials – for example, slate, the bulk of which is used in Villers-Cotterêts, and it is becoming difficult to carry out other operations. Finally, I will say a word about the future Cité internationale de la langue française de Villers-Cotterêts: it is a magnificent project – I invite you to go there because the project has progressed a lot. On this occasion, I would like to stress the importance of public institutions such as the CMN and the equalization it allows. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] With regard to the vote on appropriations, as far as I am concerned, I shall abstain, since I cannot at the same time denounce spending drift and over-indebtedness and approve a budget which increases, even if it is, I admit, investment expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u6	Mrs Constance Le Grip, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u7	The budget of the Culture Mission for 2022 is still a crisis budget. Indeed, if the reopening of cultural places – finally! –, we rejoiced and allowed the French to find with happiness the path of museums, monuments, theatres and concert halls, the return to normal will not happen in 2022. International tourism as we knew it before the pandemic crisis will not be at the rendezvous in 2022, neither in Versailles, nor in the Louvre, nor in Orsay, to name but a few of the emblematic places of French culture. The recovery is slow, also very slow for the live show: the outing habits have not been fully found, for a whole series of reasons, and the absence of international tours, as well as the persistence of gauges, especially for standing concerts – gauges of which we must note the return in forty additional departments – limit the activity. The appropriations of the Culture Mission are high: €3.5 billion, up over €200 million from 2021, plus the very important payment appropriations of the Recovery Plan, that is 350 million. These amounts are commensurate with the threats and challenges faced by the various sectors of culture. The state – the public power – is at the rendezvous. The Heritage programme amounts to 1.5 billion euros – this has been very well developed by Gilles Carrez. A special effort is being made to maintain and restore historic monuments belonging to municipalities and private owners. The recovery plan provides EUR 40 million over two years. However, it is not so much a matter of voting on appropriations as a matter of consuming them. The DRACs have taken great care to direct the appropriations towards the projects already linked, if I may say, in financial and architectural terms, but there will remain a share of appropriations not consumed by the end of 2021. Will they be postponed to 2022, Madam Minister? I also wonder, as was mentioned in the Court of Auditors' flash audit, about the congestion of the DRACs, which is a concern for many owners of monuments. The Heritage programme also funds flagship projects such as Villers-Cotetêts or the restoration of the Grand-Palais in Paris. I have visited these two sites: I share what has been said about Villers-Cotterêts, and I have been delighted, I must acknowledge, by the Cité internationale de la langue française. However, it must be said that this project will not be cost-effective and the equalization allowed by the National Monuments Centre will be necessary to support this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u8	The Creation program supports live performance and visual arts. Many emergency aid schemes have been proposed; The young National Music Centre was very responsive, and the Association for Support of Private Theatre, like the National Plastic Arts Centre, also played their part. Nevertheless, let us be aware that 2022 could be the year of all the dangers for cultural enterprises, artists and authors, as aid, support and emergency arrangements go out. In this regard, the question of the payment appropriations for the 2021 recovery plan also arises, as they will certainly not be consumed in full by the end of the year – I am thinking in particular of the credits of the National Music Centre. Will they be postponed to 2022? On the side of the major cultural operators, the Opéra de Paris, whose representatives I met, receives very important support from the public authorities. Its financial situation is severely degraded: it was aggravated by the crisis, but it existed for a variety of reasons, including, undeniably, the large-scale social movements experienced by the establishment. The modular room project – the third room of the Paris Opera – has been abandoned, which seems reasonable in the current context. It will be necessary to increase vigilance in order for the Opéra de Paris to gradually restore a balanced financial trajectory. As for the plan of artistic public orders of 30 million euros, which was announced in the summer of 2020 by the President of the Republic, it gradually declines – you have detailed the process in committee, Madam Minister. The appropriations of the programme Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture are growing significantly, but this increase is almost entirely dedicated to the pass culture: 199 million euros are devoted to the latter, of which 140 million new resources. If I was initially sceptical about the passing of culture – as I have said on several occasions, including in the Chamber – it is clear that the current project is much more solid and structured: it has moved away from an approach that I considered too consumerist, to fulfil a mission of accompaniment and mediation that seems important to me – its openness to college students from the fourth class goes in this direction. However, as I indicated in my budget opinion, I continue to question the concentration of the means of artistic and cultural education in the past culture. In conclusion, the public authorities and the state are at the rendezvous: this is the testimony of the French cultural exception, of course, but, as Gilles Carrez pointed out, all this is financed by debt, and accompanied by the recovery plan. Tomorrow, when the recovery plan stops, we will have to deal with France's over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u9	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u10	The Action Together Group welcomes the unprecedented increase in the resources devoted to culture in the 2022 finance bill. The amount of this budget is historic: apart from the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, the Culture mission will see its appropriations increase by 7.5% compared to 2021. For the first time in 2022, the budget for culture will exceed the symbolic threshold of EUR 4 billion. As you pointed out, Minister, culture has been particularly affected by the health crisis. Business losses in the market field alone exceeded 11 billion in 2020. The prolongation of the crisis in 2021 only gives hope for a slight improvement, with business losses estimated at 4.3 billion over the first six months compared to 2019. After two particularly difficult and painful years for all professionals in the sector, the increase in the culture budget is therefore excellent news. The budget for 2022 has two objectives: to support the resumption of cultural activity and to prepare the future of the sector for the longer term. The investments made to achieve this are massive. They are, first of all, in favour of creation. Thus, funding for the Creation programme will increase by more than 6% in 2022 to support artistic employment, deploy a plan for authors, and support local cultural initiatives. Festivals, live theatres, artistic residences, small independent labels or travelling troupes: all will benefit from these additional means. In addition, €116 million will be dedicated to artistic creation and dissemination in the Recovery Plan mission. Investments are massive, then, to support the transmission of cultural knowledge. An unprecedented effort will promote access to culture for all – primarily for young people. The budget for this mission will increase by 30 per cent. Our group is particularly pleased with the generalization of the cultural pass to all 18-year-olds, and its expansion to include students from the fourth to the final grade. This wonderful tool will allow an entire age group to access culture, open its horizons and let themselves be discovered: nearly 200 million will be devoted to it in 2022. Finally, investments focus on heritage. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, much has been done in this area – I am thinking of the Heritage Lotto created in 2018 at the initiative of Stéphane Bern, which has financed the restoration of more than 500 monuments at risk; I am also thinking of the EUR 40 million of the recovery plan for the restoration of the heritage, or the Cathedral Plan. Again this year, appropriations are on the rise: the heritage budget will rise to the billion mark for the first time. It will fund not only emblematic projects, such as the restoration of the Château de Villers-Cotterêts or the Grand-Palais in Paris, but also hundreds of projects that are certainly less media-friendly, but also much needed to preserve the cultural heritage of our territories. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Minister, the Action Together Group welcomes your energy and determination in the Ministry of Culture – this historic budget is a demonstration of this. We owe it to you, we owe it to the work and will of the presidential majority. Our heritage, culture and language make our history and identity. We must cherish them and keep them alive. When the country goes through difficult times, French culture and cultural exception are an urgent response to the ills of society. We will therefore vote with confidence in a spirit of responsibility. Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u11	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u12	First of all, I would like to welcome all the actors on the ground who, in public and private structures as well as in associations, brought culture to life during the difficult times that we have experienced. Your commitment, Minister, and the commitment of your services to support this outstanding sector must also be commended. The hope, the passion and the desire to share with all those who make culture in France allow us to gradually, happily, find this little something that makes our lives sweeter. "All the arts are like mirrors where man knows and recognizes something of himself that he did not know," said philosopher Alain. Because it allows us to recognize ourselves, our culture constitutes the cement of our society, whose wealth is all the greater as it is diverse – diverse in its forms and content, because cultures are made to communicate, dialogue and allow each one to learn from the other and, in doing so, to learn about oneself. I therefore welcome the increase in the funding of the Culture Mission – I must stress, however, that it is largely based on the extension of the cultural pass to all 18-year-olds, as well as to high school students, who will be able to enjoy cultural outings with their institution or on their own initiative. If this measure seems to be an undeniable step forward for everyone's access to culture, we will remain vigilant with regard to the use of the important means devoted to it. You said in committee, Madam Minister, that for the first time with the pass culture, the state not only interacted with the artists, but was also concerned about the choices made by the spectators – in this case, the younger ones: in this, you said, the pass culture is a policy of emancipation and autonomy. I fully subscribe to this idea – to one reserve, which many of us share, and which is perfectly summed up by Jacques Chirac's statement, whose love for the arts is not to be demonstrated: "The State is a necessary bulwark to avoid a culture that is standardized and subject to economic realities." In the words of our former President, I hear the will of the State to accompany the cultural emancipation of the French away from market rules – you will allow me to insist on this point. Helping institutions finance cultural outings from the fourth grade is a good initiative, but it comes at an age when cultural inequalities are, unfortunately, already very advanced. For many young people, school is often the only way to access culture in all its diversity and complexity. As the Special Rapporteur points out in her report, we must have a more ambitious artistic and cultural education policy from the youngest years of the child. In addition to the cultural pass, such a policy will be decisive in enabling every citizen to emancipate through the arts. This objective can only be fully achieved through investments aimed at increasing access to culture throughout the territory, in the most remote areas of Paris – while the capital still too often concentrates cultural investments. I'm going to music and dance schools. Like all arts schools, they have suffered enormously from the crisis; But, unlike some, they still suffer, as they are subject to very stringent health restrictions. The unequal treatment of women is subject to considerable uncertainty as to their financial situation: many schools are calling for help. I am sure that you and your services are fully aware of these problems, Minister – we will have an opportunity to discuss them. Finally, this year again, I will come back to the fate of schools of art and design. I attach particular importance to the plastic arts: it seems to me essential to support higher education and research in this field, in order to sustain their funds, their know-how and the diplomas they deliver. Although these schools are public, they do not appear to benefit from the reimbursement of tuition fees for their scholarship students, such as other public schools. When they exempt their fellows from registration fees, they do so voluntarily, on their own funds, provided they have the financial capacity to do so. We will propose amendments aimed at remedying this uneven situation. Members of the IDU and independent group therefore welcome the discussions, but will be attentive to the answers to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u13	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u14	It is impossible to ignore that the cultural budget for 2022 records two records: on the one hand it reaches for the first time the target of 4 billion euros, excluding public audiovisual; On the other hand, it recorded the largest increase in this quinquennium, with an increase of 7.5%, or 273 million euros more than last year. In addition to these two indisputable facts, we must add a third, less pleasant one: culture is not only one of the sectors hardest hit by the health crisis, but also one of the areas where recovery will be the most difficult and where fragility will be most noticeable for the longest time. From artists to institutions, from creators to audiences, the covid-19 changed everything. Through these increases, it is therefore necessary both to continue to support cultural actors in the exit from crisis and, more structurally, to face the various challenges that the crisis has intensified, and first of all, the digital and ecological transitions that will upset usages. Indeed, the four programmes of the Culture Mission are on the increase while benefiting from the second tranche of the recovery plan. The biggest increase is in the programme 36 Transmission of knowledge and democratisation of culture, which is due to the generalisation and extension of the cultural pass, whose budget is threefold and amounts to almost EUR 200 million. After a rather laborious experiment of three years, this system is now generalized to all 18-year-olds and will also be extended to pupils from the fourth to the final. The very first evaluations show that the quantitative objective has been achieved, since almost 800,000 young people have opened an account, that the manga are popular, that the pass has little impact on the development of new artistic practices. Of course, there are exceptions such as the Electropicals, which you saw, Madam Minister, in La Réunion. But if we want to avoid the simple amplification of pre-existing practices at the pass, the question of mediation arises and even more of a real and robust continuum between the pass and the cultural and artistic teaching, especially in the primary which in this field remains the poor parent. The Création programme concerns live performance and visual arts, two sectors that are very marked by the crisis and which are still at risk of severe turbulence in 2022. The mechanisms that have supported artists and institutions will have to be maintained and irrigated throughout the country if disasters are to be avoided. Festivals, which have all suffered a lot with very high cancellation rates, are particularly vulnerable. The presentation scheduled for December 1st in Toulouse of the new policy of the State with regard to festivals is very much expected, especially in the overseas countries where, as you have seen recently in La Réunion, artistic vitality is omnipresent, but also the obstacles that hinder their spread. The creation a few weeks ago of a specific overseas fund by the National Music Centre demonstrates, once again, the need to adapt and supplement the devices to the ultramarine realities. Also in this programme, I would like to refer to a project presented as one of the three main reforms of the Ministry of Culture in 2022 which concerns an institution, whose centuries-old professions and know-how in terms of heritage restoration and creation are a global reference and should be classified as intangible cultural heritage. This is the National Furniture, whose transformation into a public administrative institution raises questions and concerns among staff. The fragility of the economic model that accompanies this change of status raises questions, as well as the absence, in the draft decree, of any reference to the Atelier de recherche et de création (ARC), this high place of creation, research and exchange created by André Malraux in 1964, yet at the very heart of the missions of the National Furniture. I will not go back to the Heritage programme with more than 1 billion euros and now better territorialised, if not to mention the great presidential project of the Château de Villers-Cotterêts, called to become the Cité internationale de la langue française. You said in committee, Madam Minister, that she "will do all her part in the regional languages of France" and I thank you for that. Allow me, however, to convey here the suggestion of the President of the Reunion region, during the general states of multilingualism of the end of October, which you attended, who proposed to you to name this new institution of great importance "Cité internationale des langues de France".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u15	Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u16	"It is nine o'clock, the Assembly is waking up" and, frankly, what a pleasure it is to meet us this Saturday morning to talk about culture and to discuss with all the morning fervour that is at this moment the examination of the appropriations for 2022 of the Culture mission of this fifth finance law of our presidential majority. At a time when the time has come to take stock, we must note that we can only be satisfied with the latter. The figures and the commitments speak for themselves and I will not go back to that, except to say again that the four programmes of this budget mission relating to heritage, the creation, the transmission of knowledge and support for cultural policies are all on the increase and that this amounts to almost EUR 3 billion with the recovery plan. As I was able to say last October 26 in committee before some of you, these figures are colossal, even historical! In any case, they reflect the commitment of the Government, and your determination, Madam Minister, to strengthen the culture and to accompany it in the end of this unprecedented health crisis. Let us not forget that this budget comes in a still fragile health context, and even if more than 88% of French people over the age of 12 are vaccinated and the cultural world has played the game of the sanitary pass, it remains that the attendance of cultural places has still not regained its pre-crisis levels and that it will probably take much longer. Let us have in mind this anti-native according to which the world of culture will have been the first to close and will be the last to reopen. That is why the Government has done well to commit itself massively to it, with a total of 13.6 billion euros of cross-cutting and sectoral aid and that it is right to continue to support it by adjusting and plentiful the various aids. No sector has been or will be abandoned. It is a question of solidarity with artists. It is a question of survival for cultural industries. This is a fundamental question in the light of our principle of cultural exception. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, the place given to culture by the President of the Republic and this majority is no longer to be proved, since the increases have been constant since 2017 and reflect the return of major public cultural policies. Indeed, to return to the philosophy of this budget and to conclude with a series of concrete examples, this budget is strongly committed to youth, artistic employment and greater territorial equity. For young people, it is the generalisation of the pass culture which, I would remind you, is not done at the expense of any other policy, since it is 200 million euros of new expenditure offering 800,000 18-year-olds the unprecedented opportunity to change the paradigm of access to culture by offering themselves books, by discovering here a cultural place, that is an artistic practice, in short to benefit from a real financial boost, synonymous with autonomy, through culture. It is the doubling of the means of artistic and cultural education (EAC), which is more in the least favoured or least equipped territories. With regard to employment, it is a comprehensive plan for cultural higher education to support students during and after their studies and to finance the modernisation of national and territorial institutions. It is an unprecedented support for artistic employment and artists-authors. Beyond the white year of intermittents, these are all the accompanying devices for these professionals until the end of 2022. These are the fallout of the restoration of historic monuments. As Picard, I am thinking in particular of the start of the restoration and security work of the magnificent cathedral of Amiens. For territorial rebalancing, this is a further increase in DRAC appropriations, the amount of which has increased by 22% since 2017. These are €32.5 million of new measures to support local arts teams. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, I invite you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move, to adopt the appropriations for the Culture mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u17	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u18	Before I begin my remarks, I would like to express our pleasure at sitting this morning, and to apologize for the absence of the members of the Republicans of the committee who would have liked to speak before you today, first among them Valérie Bazin-Malgras and Virginie Duby-Muller. This budget, which is the second in times of health crisis, comes as the world of culture continues to suffer from the consequences of a crisis whose intensity is unprecedented for all professionals in the sector. Museums, theatres and cinemas had never had to face such a decline in their activity. Repeated closures for a culture considered non-essential, constraints that have greatly reduced attendance, new leisure habits, increased use of platforms: the obstacles have been and are still numerous. Indeed, we are still far from the expected recovery. I want to point out that almost half of the French have still not attended a cultural place since the introduction of the health pass. They were only 12% in this case before the pandemic. This is nothing more than the alarming finding of the study that you yourself commissioned. The increase in the culture budget was therefore more than necessary: it was essential. For the first time, it will, moreover, exceed EUR 4 billion and we welcome it. This increase relates to the three main programmes: an additional €7 million for heritage, mainly in investment, which amounts to just over €1 billion; Additional EUR 48 million for the creation of EUR 909 million; EUR 180 million for the transmission of knowledge and the democratisation of culture, to EUR 758 million. Nevertheless, there are several points of vigilance that deserve to be stopped for a moment. First of all, while I was able to welcome, as our draftsman for his opinion, the significant increase in the budget for culture, it is worth recalling that it will be mainly due to the increase in the debt, Gilles Carrez recalled, and that, in general, this year too, the Government has not committed any reduction in expenditure to finance its budgetary priorities. If I am personally convinced, Madam Minister, that this debt saves the French cultural exception, the group of Members of Parliament The Republicans cannot ignore the risk that future governments will be forced to reverse these budget increases in order to carry out the necessary reform of the state. I would also like to draw your attention to a number of major projects that are dear to us. Thus, I note that, for 2022, in the Heritage programme, you have entered EUR 12 million in payment appropriations for the restoration of the Grand-Palais. I regret that the budget documents at our disposal do not provide us with any information on the progress of work and the respect for the financial path that has been set. This seems to me to be all the more important given that this structuring project for the cultural offer has undergone a restructuring thanks to you, and that it must now be within the initial envelope of EUR 466 million. Similarly, as a Member of Parliament for Paris, and especially as an elected member of the 17th arrondissement, I would like to return to the Creation programme. There is a project that I love, that of the Cité du théâtre located in the Berthier workshops. It is structuring for the live show since it will include the Comédie Française, the Théâtre de l'Odéon and the Conservatoire national supérieur d'art dramatique. More generally, it will offer magnificent cultural programming in northern Paris. It is expected to receive EUR 9 million in commitment and payment appropriations. However, let me be concerned about the delay due, among other reasons, to the failure of the negotiations with the Paris City Council on municipal land, which makes it difficult to carry out this project. Could you, Madam Minister, tell us the state of play of the negotiations and the calendar consequences of these negotiations? The draftsman has told us that the delays caused by the Cité du théâtre project lead to the postponement of disbursements from year to year. In view of these questions, does the Government guarantee that the project will be maintained in its entirety? Many other questions would deserve answers at a time when we are about to vote on the culture budget, but time is running out. On behalf of the Republicans, I would like to dwell for a moment on the extension of the cultural pass, with an increase of EUR 140 million under the programme Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture. Given that 800,000 young people are involved and that the amount of the scheme per young person is 300 euros, a quick calculation shows that the theoretical needs are under-budgeted. Do you anticipate under-consumption of the pass culture by young people? In which case, why not simply review the ceiling for eligible expenditure? Moreover, how do you intend to make the cultural pass a tool to accompany the revival in the living show? As you will have understood, this budget of culture carries many paradoxes. Of course, it carries a substantial increase in the appropriations allocated to culture within it, and we welcome that. But, "at the same time", it also marks the end of the credits provided by the recovery plan, even though culture remains distressed. [[The draftswoman for opinion applauds]] If, in my personal capacity, I will vote in favour, considering that it has the merit of making progress in supporting the sector, the Group of the Republicans will abstain, stressing its concern for the future and its incomprehension with regard to certain budgetary arbitrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u19	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u20	On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I once again welcome the architecture of the Culture mission of the 2022 finance bill. In view of a historical increase of more than 8.10%, our group would like once again to welcome the significant effort made through this last fiscal year of the legislature. As a reminder, whether in commitment authorisations or in payment appropriations, the resources allocated to culture will rise to more than 3.46 billion euros next year, compared with 3.2 billion in 2021. Thus, the finance bill for 2022 is definitely that of the rise of support for culture in the territories – this last word is very important. I note, for example, the additional €20 million to develop cultural democratisation and support State-region plan contracts, or the progress of the Cities or countries of art and history scheme. Our group, committed to the fairness and adaptation of public policies throughout France, can only rejoice. I would also like to highlight the good heritage choices made under programme 175. You have often heard me speak of this question, which is particularly dear to me: here too, our group must say its satisfaction. I am pleased to see a growing commitment by the State to the preservation and enhancement of its historic monuments, all too often neglected in spite of the French commitment to their heritage – which reminded us of the success of the Heritage Lotto. If we step back, we see that this commitment has increased by 7% during this mandate, an increase of €18 million. It is a success that we can all be proud of and that serves the conservation of private or community-owned properties. In the case of State-owned monuments, the emphasis has been on financing the restoration of the eighty-seven cathedrals, which has been increased to EUR 50 million per year. Following the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, whose restoration is closely followed by an information mission of the National Assembly, it is also a matter of guaranteeing their safety. Of course, that should be welcomed. The recovery plan, and more specifically the €80 million Cathedral Plan, has thus increased these financial efforts. Those destined for the Château de Villers-Cotterêts are also central: in the Renaissance, François I made it compulsory to use the French language in the acts of administration and justice; Today, we make it the growing symbol of the Francophonie in the world. These are all points that we can take pride in when we look at this last fiscal bill of the legislature. I will also mention the culture pass and its enlargement, which is very positive for all our young people. The Micro-Folies, however, sometimes find it difficult to develop and give rise to some tiring in the departments, but it is necessary to help realize the wishes for the installation of these projects at the heart of the territories. I will also point out a few points of vigilance. While support for cultural activities in the territories is increasing, some projects are still experiencing difficulties. I'll mention two of them, which I know very well. It is first of all the one, structural, of the Pôle d'éducation supérieure de la musique et de la danse de Bordeaux, which will make it possible to complete the offer of dance throughout New Aquitaine. An additional cost of EUR 5 million has just been announced, which puts funding at risk, especially since the regional council's assistance has not yet been announced. What can the state do to better support this institution? It is also the project of maintenance and renovation of the cathedral Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Bazas, in my commune, south of the Gironde. For this multi-year programme, DRAC has recently increased its intervention from 70% of total public aid to 40%. The loss of profits for this small town is very heavy: 100,000 euros. The cathedral is however a superb 13th century building, to which the citizens are very attached. I hope we can work together on this issue. Moreover, other municipalities are also experiencing the problem of a significant decrease in DRAC aid, despite the increase in the latter's budget. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] These examples from the territory of which I am elected illustrate the difficulties that we must constantly face in bringing to fruition the projects that we are defending. However, the Culture mission of the PLF for 2022 extends important ambitions for our country and, I repeat, the Members of the Dem Group will vote without hesitation for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u21	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u22	After a particularly difficult year 2020 for the world of culture, with a loss of more than EUR 11 billion and an uneven recovery across sectors, it is still too early to say what the year 2022 will be, because this crisis has highlighted the difficulties that existed before and the trade unions in the sector we have heard do not expect a restart before the third quarter of 2022. This data obliges us to think of the financing of the cultural sector in a sustainable way and, if the cross-cutting and sectoral aids have saved the world of culture, we will still have to wait to take stock of the measures taken, for jobs with the introduction of the white year for intermittents and for the resumption of activity in the various sectors of culture – recovery, which, as you mentioned, Madam Minister, does not seem to be meeting the concerns of the French. Even though the review of the 2022 finance bill, which was crossed with the measures of a little bit of a stimulus plan - everything is not very legible, we stress with satisfaction the increase in the budget for culture, with 8.2% on the three consecutive budgets, as well as the importance of cross-cutting and sectoral aids. This support was essential. However, we have reservations about some of the choices made with the concentration of certain appropriations. This is particularly the case for the pass culture. Suffer, minister, that we have a different point of view than yours on this issue. With a budget of 140 million euros for new measures, to which 59 million euros must be added in 2021, this flagship project of your government consumes 199 million euros for the Culture mission alone. Despite this investment, 249 million will be needed to finance all the purchases of the 830,000 young people concerned. It is therefore half of the new means of the culture budget that is attributed to this tool, which, in our view, is more in line with an immediate consumption objective than with an in-depth work on the issue of cultural democratisation. You have certainly developed the collective and mediation component, but our reservations concern the proportionality between means and objectives. This budget is, for example, almost identical to that allocated to all cultural higher education institutions and double that allocated to the visual arts. If in some territories the pass has shown interesting effects in terms of access to culture, we defend, with an amendment, the priority of the ABC, artistic and cultural education, from an early age, and the need for a solid assessment of the impact of the actions carried out. There was no need for a cultural pass to carry out actions such as Lyceans and apprentices in opera, set up for many years by the Rhône-Alpes region and which engages a class group on a long-term project. In comparison, artistic and cultural education funds increase by only EUR 1.5 million, while they cover more young people and over a much longer period of time. Plan Chorale, orchestra at school, cultural workshops, presence of the speakers in class, cultural outings: all these devices are levers of transmission of culture that could have benefited, in a complementary way, from the same credits as the cheque. We approve of the additional €26 million for cultural higher education, which is part of the production of our future artists. However, Madam Minister, let me recall our proposal, to which no reply has yet been given, concerning teachers in territorial art schools, on which we, together with a colleague from the majority, had tabled a report. We support an additional €37 million in effort towards the DRACs, which, in close contact with the territories, support the creation, support the arrangements towards new audiences and establish links with artists: 61% of the ministry's intervention appropriations are now deconcentrated, which must accompany concerted territorial policies, even if the procedures for calling for projects are sometimes too cumbersome for small structures. We also regret that the proposal to extend the scope of the tax credit for the acquisition of works of art for individuals, with the aim of enabling a more citizen presence in the world of the arts, has still not been accepted. We would also like to see applications for tax credits for circus and puppet arts, which are very vulnerable sectors, heard. With the decline in attendance at festivals, theatres and concerts, the tax measures demanded by these cultural actors seem legitimate to us. As we all see in our territories, recovery is not on the table: we need to consolidate aid and foster dialogue with all sectors. Finally, we are satisfied with the increase in the appropriations for the Heritage Action by 7% outside the recovery plan. We hope, of course, that these credits will benefit the most well-known operators, including national operators, who have lost up to 70% of their commercial revenues, as well as all the territories, which so often face difficulties in valuing their assets. Beyond the heritage in the architectural understanding of the term, it is indeed, in fact, the journey of every citizen who is written, giving the individual a universal value that unites us all. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, we are, in the Socialist and related group, alongside the cultural actors of our country and will therefore vote your budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u23	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u24	I am very pleased to meet you this morning to present the Ministry of Culture's budget proposal for the last fiscal year of this quinquennium, a budget proposal that has seen an unprecedented increase. With 273 million euros of new measures, an increase of 7.5% over 2021, it will, for the first time in its history and as many of you have stressed – I am thinking in particular of Pierre-Yves Bournazel, Pascal Bois and Karine Lebon – the historic course of 4 billion euros, to reach 4.08 billion euros, outside the public audiovisual sector. It gives substance to the commitment which the President of the Republic made at the beginning of his quinquennium to restore culture to its full place in our society, a commitment which is all the more essential given that the health crisis has profoundly affected the cultural sectors, as you have also been many, rightly, to stress. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This crisis has, in fact, disrupted the living conditions of artists and creators, as well as the relationship with the public. It has struck the whole sector morally, preventing what makes the very essence of culture: the encounter and exchange between works, creators and the public. As Pascal Bois pointed out, the state has not been inactive and has been able to mobilise rapidly, strongly and continuously, deploying more than 13.6 billion euros to support all public and private actors in culture since March 2020. No other country in the world has done the same, and many foreign artists welcome the mobilization of the French state. The draft budget that I have the honour to present to you therefore meets two main objectives: on the one hand, to accompany the exit from the crisis while the recovery remains fragile, with levels of attendance still below those of 2019. This seems to be related to the fear that some of our compatriots may be re-visiting cultural sites, as shown by the recent opinion study commissioned by my ministry. On the other hand, preparing for the future, because the crisis has also crystallized ongoing changes, which must be addressed. Practices are changing very quickly and we need to organize ourselves to adapt our policies. This is the meaning of the main priorities of this budget, in particular the Culture mission: a youth-oriented budget, which strengthens our support on the ground, as close as possible to the territories, and rethinks everyone's access to culture while responding to the challenges of digital and ecological transitions. In 2022, its appropriations will amount to almost EUR 3.4 billion, an increase of more than 8% over a year, to which, as Constance Le Grip pointed out, will be added the appropriations of the recovery plan. This priority for young people is reflected first and foremost in the programme Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture, created in this format in 2021 and which will receive 181 million euros of additional funding, particularly for two main priorities of this five-year period mentioned by many of you: the deployment of artistic and cultural education and the implementation of the pass culture. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the evaluation work carried out on this subject by Dominique David. The experiment carried out in fourteen departments allowed to examine the strengths and weaknesses of the scheme and the President of the Republic presented last May the generalization of the pass to all 18-year-olds. Let's just say it's a real success. Since May 20th, almost 641000 18-year-old users have received a credit of 300 euros out of an annual cohort of 850,000 young people. Every week, there are between 10,000 and 12,000 new registrants. I want to reassure Brigitte Kuster: the appropriations are sufficient for the year 2022, since they take account of the gradual rise of the system. As you know, it will be extended to young people from the fourth to the end of January to allow the mediation actions to which Michèle Victory is attached. Nearly EUR 200 million will be allocated in 2022. On the Culture mission, this represents an increase of 140 million in new measures. The priority for young people is also being given to the expansion of artistic and cultural education. Over the next five years, we will have almost doubled ABC funding to over $100 million by 2022. This is a commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government, embodied since the beginning of the quinquennium in our goal of 100% EAC at school, in partnership with the ministries concerned, starting with the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Local Government. At the same time, this budget shows an unprecedented commitment to cultural higher education: the appropriations allocated to this policy will increase by 11 per cent in 2022, an increase of 26 million, to enable the renovation of schools, the improvement of student life or the occupational integration of young graduates. To this is added the exceptional effort made in the framework of France Relaunch for the acceleration of the renovation and digitalisation of our schools, which amounts to 70 million investment over two years and which is already well committed. The resources on the Culture mission also allow us to continue efforts to place the inhabitants, territories and artists at the heart of our cultural policies, with 12.5 million new measures devoted to territorial policies. In 2022, credits deconcentrated in the regional cultural affairs directorates, the DRACs, will increase by 4%, with 37 million new resources. I thank Gilles Carrez for proposing some improvements that I will take into account. Since 2017, these appropriations have increased by 22%, a tangible sign of this government's commitment to piloting and allocating resources as close as possible to the territories. This commitment to the territories also requires a renewed State policy framework to support festivals. The general states of the festivals, through already two editions, have set out the terms of the debates and made it possible to share numerous analyses and studies. The third edition, to be held in December in Toulouse, will present the resulting actions. By 2022, the means of festivals will increase by 10 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u25	In addition, an additional EUR 10 million will be devoted to institutions, labels and networks, as well as to artistic teams in the region, renewing the important effort already made in 2021. In total, the credits for artistic creation will therefore amount in 2022 to 909 million euros before transfers, an increase of 5.6%. This is almost 100 million euros more than in 2017. In this regard, I thank Béatrice Descamps for commending the cultural actors who have been fully involved in this crisis. The focus on our territories is also particularly present in the Heritage programme, so dear to Sophie Mette, which benefits from a budget of 1,019 billion euros before transfers. With regard to the resources devoted to historical monuments and thanks to France's support, in 2022 they will amount to 470 million, an increase of 3.5% over 2021. It is in this context that the cathedrals plan, already under way, will continue to be deployed. In total, non-relaunched wealth support will have increased by 7% over the past five years. Finally, the protection of our heritage has been strengthened by the use of innovative financing, in particular the Heritage Lotto, which has since its establishment made it possible to finance the restoration of more than 500 monuments at risk, the State also providing its support to the scheme due to the competition of the related taxes. A total of 115 million more have been mobilized over four years. The budget of the Culture mission also reflects, and this is the third ambition for 2022, our unwavering support for artists, authors and creators: dear Dominique David, you have stressed the urgent need for it. Throughout the crisis, we acted in favour of intermittent employment, extending the white year until 31 December 2021 and accompanying it with regulatory arrangements, which guarantee intermittent workers up to 16 months from 31 August 2021. The Ministry is thus determined to ensure the exit of the creative sector from crisis. In addition, it supported artistic and cultural employment during the resumption of activity in the second half of 2021 with three schemes, each with 10 million, aimed at facilitating the recruitment of intermittents and at better structuring of employment through the National Fund for Permanent Employment in the Performing Arts, the FONPEPS. In addition, all available tools have been mobilized to support authors and creators, particularly affected by the crisis. The Solidarity Fund has made it possible to pay 244 million to 45,000 beneficiaries, and the exemptions from social contributions introduced in 2020 are renewed for the year 2021, with a new payment in 2022. To complement these schemes, specific aid was granted by the Ministry's public institutions, reaching 35 million in 2020 and 2021. Finally, in 2022 we will continue to deploy the ambitious programme for the artists-authors that I presented last March, as well as the call for a project "New Worlds" desired by the President of the Republic as part of the recovery plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore have the honour of defending the last budget of this five-year period, which has two objectives: to accompany the changes in the cultural sectors and to prepare for the future. The means it mobilizes enable us to live up to this ambition. I therefore hope, and I have heard it through your various interventions, that it will receive the widest possible support because culture can and must bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u26	We come to the questions. I would like to remind you that the duration of questions such as answers is set at two minutes. Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u27	We can all collectively welcome the fact that the budget for culture is on the increase and up to what it should have always been. Last Thursday, I organized a video conference with cultural actors from the Tarn to take stock with them of the way out of the crisis and, above all, the prospects for the future. They were unanimous on two points: firstly, on your listening, Madam Minister, your involvement and your commitment to all actors in culture; Secondly, the aid granted during the crisis. They often told me: otherwise we would not be there, otherwise we would no longer exist; One of them even said to me: "Without that, we would have died. » But, for tomorrow, I have felt a lot of concern among many actors of the live show who wonder how they will be able to find a complete gauge with regard to ticketing because, but this is not the case everywhere, people do not return to the show or to the cinema. Will they still receive aid in 2022 and 2023? What will happen as certain fixed charges increase? Have you considered anything in the medium and long term? You also indicated in your opening remarks that the DRAC budget was going to increase significantly. Therefore, can we not envisage that an envelope should be dedicated to small festivals that do not often have access to calls for projects, in order to compensate for the loss of profits in the ticket office that they will certainly suffer in the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u28	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u29	You stressed the importance of the role of the State and of aid to the cultural sector. That is true, as far as ticketing is concerned, a lot of concern remains that we all share here. The increase in attendance in recent months is very contrasting according to sectors and locations. For example, with 75,000 spectators welcomed in mid-October, the public establishments of creation, which I am with great attention, are still experiencing an overall decline of 15% compared to 2019. Beyond that, there are more structural changes in consumption among spectators who favour later purchases. There are fewer subscriptions – they have dropped by 41% compared to 2019 – and fewer bookings in advance, resulting in a 50% drop in season filling compared to 2019. Are these changes cyclical or structural? It is still very difficult to know, even though I have the intuition that the two mechanisms are at work. To address the concerns of cultural actors in your department, the Tarn, the State has shown that it is present to safeguard the cultural sector in all its diversity. We have deployed the necessary aid and we will continue to do so as long as it is useful in adapting our devices to the situation, as we have done for the operators with the exceptional compensation of 234 million foreseen in the framework of the draft amending finance bill at the end of the year, and the film sector with the 34 million that I announced in Deauville. Finally, festivals, which were hard hit during the crisis, are one of the priorities of my action. We have put in place a number of mechanisms to assist them in terms of organization, gauge or format. This bill strengthens support for this sector with €10 million of new measures. In Avignon and then in Bourges, we saw the great diversity of festivals that are nearly 10000 throughout the country, and the fragility of their economic model. We will work on adapted economic models, which I will have the opportunity to present in Toulouse on 1 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u30	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u31	I thank you for the reply you gave me during your opening speech on the pass culture, and I would like to return to the comments I made earlier on the evolution of the Cité du théâtre and the delay made due to difficult negotiations with the City of Paris on land. But maybe you can't give me an answer now. On the other hand, more than a year ago, I proposed a commission of inquiry into religious heritage. I welcome the increased appropriations for the Cathedral Plan, but it should not be the tree that hides the forest. In our ridings, we have seen examples of churches that burn and whose media do not always echo. In fact, I was forced to seize you in writing from the church of Romilly-la-Puthenaye, in the Eure. I see how lost the mayors of the small communes are when faced with such an event: the accompaniment that one might think obvious is not always at the meeting. Beyond the sums that are needed and that have been announced with great reinforcement by all the communities, months after nothing has moved. I would like to question you, because this heritage is suffering a lot at the moment and I am counting on your commitment and assistance, which may not be financial, on this subject because, unfortunately, the committee of inquiry which I requested was not accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u32	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u33	The Cité du théâtre is a project aimed at installing the Conservatoire national supérieur d'art dramatique, the Théâtre national de l'Odéon and the Comédie-Française in the relevant development area (ZAC) of the Batignolles, on Berthier's site. It has three objectives: to be a new artistic impetus to theatrical creation since this place will be dedicated to the training, professional integration and dissemination of major French and international theatre works; develop synergies and allow the creation of shared tools for operators by having three artistic identities co-operate; demarcate practices. A public interest grouping (PIG) was established between the State and the three operators concerned at the end of 2019. At the preliminary summary project (APS) stage in April 2021, it became apparent that, at the same program level, the initially planned envelope might be too fair due, inter alia, to the need to take into account new constraints on fire safety and safety. There are therefore some cost savings that are being considered to return to a financial envelope closer to the one set out at the beginning of the project. In addition, discussions with the City of Paris for the acquisition of the land behind the plot should be continued. We do not know when they will succeed or what the outcome of the negotiations will be. You are right to point out the long-term problems that can arise from the conservation of cultural sites. In France there are 100,000 cultural buildings and about 50,000 parish churches of varying architectural value, some of which are in an extremely worrying state. There is no doubt that, in the next twenty years, our successors will face a wall of investment. Local and regional authorities, in this case the municipalities, which own these buildings, will have to provide considerable financial resources and probably other sources of financing. This will be a great topic for the future presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u34	I call the credits from the Culture Mission, listed in state B. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2051.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u35	The situation of artists-authors has been worrying for many years. In his report entitled "The Author and the Act of Creation", Bruno Racine already found in 2019 that the average income of artists-authors had declined by 2.6% between 2001 and 2017, while the income received by all artists had increased by 50%. In addition to these inequities, the health crisis and numerous cessations of activities have added: 98 per cent of artists-authors reported being affected economically and 36 per cent had to cancel many projects. Although the Government proposed 15 measures in favour of artists-authors in March 2021, which we all welcome in this House, many people have not felt listened to and fear the long-term consequences of a health crisis that is likely to last. In this context, the maintenance of an emergency professional aid fund for 2022, an important fund for artists-authors, seems to be a minimum to help a sector that is lagging behind. As you know, parliamentarians cannot create new expenditure without compensating them with levies from other appropriations, but it is not my intention to puncture on programmes of the Culture Mission. That is why I have merely given a symbolic euro to alert you, Madam Minister, to the great precariousness of the artists-authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u36	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u37	During the crisis, 250 million euros were paid to artists-authors through the solidarity fund, to which should be added 100 million euros of reduction of expenses and millions of euros from various sectoral funds. Of course, problems have arisen. Thus, for the visual arts, the aids have only come to them difficult or not at all, which is probably due to the structuring of the fields of study. Support for artists, however, remains a priority. A dedicated delegation from the Directorate-General for Artistic Creation (DGCA) has become the contact point for organizations defending the interests of artists-authors, which has facilitated dialogue. So I think they are being listened to today. In addition, a specific annual statistical observatory has been set up and the improvement of access to social rights is now under way: the threshold for the opening of entitlements has been lowered and a review of the scheme for the redemption of non-contributory pension quarters has been drawn up. The governance of the Association pour la gestion de la sécurité sociale des auteurs (AGESSA), whose functioning has been criticized, will be reviewed, in particular to allow artists-authors to be members of its board of directors. The tax rules will be clarified and simplified, in particular through an increase in the income derived from activities carried out as principal or incidental part of the artist-author regime. Furthermore, access to information will be improved through a digital portal. The recommendations of the Racine report are therefore concrete: fifteen of them are already being implemented. For all these reasons, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u38	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u39	The rapporteur has excellently explained the reasons why she issued an unfavourable opinion. There is no need to add details. My opinion will be the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u40	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u41	I believe that the artists-authors needed to hear these explanations in the Chamber. You have raised an important issue, the Special Rapporteur: the difficulties of access to rights. I believe it is necessary to improve the situation. Having said that, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u42	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1820.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u43	It aims to double the funding allocated to artistic and cultural practices in school time, even though they have already been increased during the legislature. The goal is to achieve the goal of 100% artistic and cultural education. On this subject, our views diverge. We believe that the first step that has been taken is not enough. We need to deploy a long-term policy and go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u44	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u45	Apart from culture, funding for artistic and cultural education amounts to EUR 100 million, plus amounts from the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. 100% ABC is therefore largely funded. Your amendment is to transfer to the ABC almost all the new appropriations for the cultural pass which you consider to be inspired by a mercantile view of culture. Recall that access to platforms like Amazon is excluded from the pass culture. To buy books with, you have to go to a bookstore. If young people choose manga, why not, from the moment the booksellers seek to open their horizons and suggest other works. For music, the fact that the pass can be used to subscribe to platforms like Deezer has been criticized but this mode of listening is part of the evolution of cultural practices. If the device were limited to the purchase of CDs, it would be doomed to failure. It should be added that the level of expenditure related to digital offers is capped at EUR 100. We believe that the culture pass opens up to culture as effectively as the ABC. Our opinion will therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u47	I shall issue an opinion which is unfavourable for the same reasons as those set out by the Special Rapporteur. Culture and artistic and cultural education should not be opposed. These are two complementary devices. While cultural mediation is an integral part of the ABC, it is also present in the cultural pass. The extension of the pass to children under 18 years of age is based on the use of school projects and on a system combining cultural mediation and autonomy for secondary school students. The pass is carried by a very special philosophy, that of the emancipation of young people. Of course, you have to hold hands with them, of course, you have to guide them, but at some point they have to be able to make their own choices. A young person may decide to devote the entire amount of the cultural pass to the purchase of a musical instrument: it is his choice. In its early days, the pass was used to buy books, and when the bookstores reopened, it was an important support for their business. Studies have shown that 40 per cent of young people who bought a manga have, on the advice of the bookseller, chosen another book. And the share of manga purchases has increased from 80 per cent to less than 50 per cent. Ticket purchases are increasing. We look at all this carefully, watching for changes in cultural practices. I believe in emancipation and autonomy. I also believe in the complementarity between the two mechanisms of culture and ABC. I am therefore not in favour of the important transfer of appropriations from one to another that you are proposing, Mrs Victory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u48	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u49	I hear well and I do not oppose the two devices. You know that parliamentarians do not have much room for manoeuvre from a budgetary point of view. Our main objective was to recall our conviction that it is essential to put students in contact with works and artists from the very beginning of their school career. We attach great importance to these projects which occupy them for several months and allow them to go to shows and practice singing, dance or theatre. For us, it is imperative to put the package on the ABC. Of course, a lot of money has been spent on it, but if we really want 100 per cent of students to benefit from artistic and cultural education, we need to go even further. I repeat, I do not oppose ABC to the culture pass. I just wanted to draw your attention to the amounts spent on these two devices. It's all about proportionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u50	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 2060.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u51	This amendment is an opportunity for me to stress the importance of the role of schools in the cultural enrichment of pupils. In this regard, I welcome the increase in appropriations for ABC. I would stress the value of helping primary schools. Culture is not discovered when you get to college and high school. Much of cultural awareness and appropriation is done upstream, within families, but all parents, as we know, cannot, for various reasons, take their young children to the museum, theatre or concert. For the sake of republican equality, the school must also seize the cultural and artistic learning of the children. I can tell you that teachers are well aware of this. The aim of this amendment is therefore to allow schools to organise cultural outings for children from an early age, as well as meetings with artists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u53	The mission's appropriations for ABC are, I repeat, high, reaching EUR 100 million and in addition to those for national education. The encounter with works is one of the pillars of artistic and cultural education with the practice and learning of content related to arts and culture. However, it is not reserved for secondary school students, it is possible to make use of it for children from primary school. It gives priority to artistic practice. It does not seem wise to create a specific fund to allow primary school students access to artistic or cultural representations in dedicated places. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u54	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u55	Mrs Descamps, I share your concerns: I see only advantages in developing arts and cultural education in primary school. Students need to be able to benefit early because some families are more disabled than others in order to gain access to culture for their children. In this budgetary discussion, however, it seems to me important to bring everyone back to his or her responsibilities. These cultural activities, when they take place during school time, are the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, but, in the context of extracurricular time, it is up to the municipalities to organise them. I am therefore not against your amendment on the substance. It is considerations of the responsibilities that must be called upon in these absolutely indispensable policies that lead me to ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u56	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u57	I think there really is work to be done with the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u59	Moreover, not all municipalities have the same means. I can assure you, Madam Special Rapporteur, that we are fighting in kindergartens and elementary schools to offer cultural enrichment to students, but we often lack the means. We must be aware of this and seek to remedy it. Having said that, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u60	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1818, 1819 and 1817, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u61	These three amendments do not all deal with the same subject, Mr President, and I shall begin by defending Amendment No 1818. You mentioned in your speech, Minister, an impetus for theatrical creation. This is precisely the purpose of our amendment, which aims to launch a national theatre plan, like the Choir Plan. We have all the assets to build a link between young people and theatre: creators, but also professionals. The development of theatrical activities in schools addresses two major issues. On the one hand, the project of cultural democratization, always put forward but never completed, and which is the ideal means of promoting the transmission of knowledge by combating social intimidation. On the other hand, the development of a collective theatrical project, according to a logic of socialization that can only be positive and emancipatory. This plan aims to set up theatre in every school and college in our country, on a non-optional basis, for two hours a week. The budget will cover the recruitment of theatre professionals and the financing of actors' interventions. Such a measure would allow our young people to have a different way of expressing themselves and to appropriate certain problems that prevail in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u63	ABC's credits are partly directed towards theatre to encourage young people's contact with actors, authors, directors, companies and works. They are also used to develop certain practices, and I would point out that oral expression is one of the five key areas of ABC. For example, 500 institutions offer eloquence education that can take the form of theatre workshops involving actors. As you know, in 2022 we celebrate the 400th anniversary of Molière's birth. On this occasion, many operations have already been launched throughout France since the fall of 2021, accompanied by educational resources and a plan to develop theatrical practice in schools, in conjunction with cultural partners. The aim is to encourage the creation of new troops of establishments, enriched by the regular meeting of works and artists. As you can see, this is already a form of national theatre plan. On the other hand, I am not in favour of the compulsory nature of theatre in teaching: this must remain one option among others, with some students preferring music or visual arts. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u65	Mrs Victory, your three amendments all have the same financial structure, namely to propose the creation of a plan dedicated to theatre, orchestra or choral singing at school, financed by credits punctuated on the pass culture. If I believe that the plans that you want to create are not without interest, I do not think it appropriate to finance them by taking the necessary funds from the cultural pass, which in my view plays an essential role in cultural mediation and emancipation. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u66	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u67	Madam Minister, you know as well as I do that the budgetary rules do not give us any other possibility, when we want to create new actions, than that of taking appropriations elsewhere. I have only spoken about theatre in my defence of Amendment No 1818, but the creation of a plan for the orchestra at school – proposed by Amendment No 1819 – and of a plan for choral singing at school – proposed by Amendment No 1817 – are also of great interest, in that they allow us to reach whole classes and to carry out long-term work – with regard to choral singing, I am thinking in particular of the popular mastery of the Opéra Comique, which is aimed at the students of CM1 and CM2. Each time, these are exciting projects that give the satisfaction of reaching out to a large number of people. Of course, funding sometimes allows the practice of choral singing, but they are not always sufficient and above all perennial. Thus, in my department, the formation of twenty choir chefs is 90% funded this year by the Bettencourt Schueller Foundation, through an association: that's very good, but what will happen next year? I insist on this point: to put in place a real plan dedicated to choral singing, it takes chorus conductors, and chorus conductors, it doesn't make up,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u68	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u69	...we need to train them, and to do so we need sustainable financing. Of course, what I am saying on this point concerns both your Ministry and the Ministry responsible for education.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u70	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u71	I can only speak in my personal capacity, since the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, whose draftsman I am honoured to be, did not accept these amendments. I would like to inform the Minister and the national representation that I consider with great interest and benevolence Mrs Victory's proposals, which, contrary to what has been said, are not intended to be financed from appropriations from the cultural pass, but from the policy support program of the Ministry of Culture. For my part, I consider it necessary to strengthen and sustain, including in budgetary terms, the desire of the State to strengthen, for example, the mastery of the French language and oral expression by creating a plan dedicated to theatre at school. We are all aware of the importance of these issues in today's society, which is why, personally, I am rather in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u72	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u73	Amendment No 1818 seems particularly interesting to me. Theatre at school is a long-term work that helps bring theatrical culture to audiences who would not necessarily have access to it without it – an example of the "go to" policy. I salute the work of municipal or inter-municipal theatres that go to schools, because we know that a student who meets the theatre in this way may then want to make it discover by his parents, and can himself become a regular viewer. The work carried out by theatres at the level of the municipality is part of this dynamic of the social inclusion of citizens, often mentioned. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u74	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u75	I thank our colleague for highlighting the benefits of artistic education by advocating for a plan dedicated to theatre at school. Your answer may be agreed, Madam Minister, because the Ministry responsible for education must also take into account the need to place more emphasis on culture at school, whether in programs or in practice. Since we mentioned earlier the anniversary of Molière's birth, which this year gives rise to numerous demonstrations, I would like to echo with you the request made by Francis Huster to the President of the Republic to pantheonize Jean-Baptiste Poquelin. I had already asked you about this and you had told me that a memorial reflection would be undertaken on this question. I am aware that I am a little out of the budget debate, but on this Saturday morning I hope that you will not hold on to it and would like to let me know what fate it is envisaged to reserve for this request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u76	[[Smile]] Molière's still up to date!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u77	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u78	However, I would like to point out that the culture budget is being increased this year by an unprecedented amount and that the issues of artistic and cultural education have been taken into account since the beginning of this quinquennium. While I recognize the value of the amendments tabled by Mrs Victory, it seems to me that the essential thing is to ensure that artistic and cultural education is no longer based on the chance of a meeting, the commitment of a local community or of a teacher, but that artistic and cultural education becomes a must for all by finding its place at the heart of national education programmes. In my view, this is less a matter of the commitment – already very strong – of the Ministry of Culture than of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, which aims to confirm and strengthen itself. Significant progress has already been made in this quinquennium, whether in music or theatre, and I hope that there will be more to ensure that culture takes the place it deserves in our children's schooling.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u79	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2061 and 2062, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u80	I had withdrawn Amendment No 2061 in committee at the request of the rapporteur for an opinion, who seemed to share my great concern,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u82	... but I am presenting it again in session so that the situation of the music schools, which have really been suffering since the health crisis, can be discussed. Unlike conservatories, these schools still have an obligation to apply a binding health protocol, particularly with regard to minors. Connecting communities do their best, but their financial opportunities are generally limited and very uneven across jurisdictions. I know that the Ministry of Culture is aware of these difficulties, but I would like to know if there are any arrangements to help music schools. If this is not the case, I propose with this amendment the creation of a EUR 1 million support fund, which would certainly be insufficient but which would have the merit of existing. Amendment No 2062 aims to provide the same response to a similar problem concerning dance schools, noting that 30% of them have had to close since the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u84	I will repeat, Madam Member, the response that the minister made to you earlier about schools – of dance, I think, but I am no longer sure. Unlike conservatories, these schools are private structures often formed in an associative form and subsidized by local authorities. They are therefore not intended to be supported by the State. Although it falls within the competence of the municipalities, artistic and cultural education is, however, supported by the State through the considerable resources it provides to local and regional authorities to pursue their cultural policy: €48 million is transferred to local and regional authorities on the programme Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture. The deconcentration of appropriations allows the DRACs to intervene on a case-by-case basis, if necessary. Finally, during the crisis, music schools were able to benefit from the solidarity fund and other emergency arrangements for associations and private institutions. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u86	I would like to add to the excellent argument put forward by the Special Rapporteur: the schools in question are private schools, or are owned by local authorities, which receive funding. I would point out that the State has no responsibility for these structures and does not exercise pedagogical control there; This is an important point to point out. I would then like to point out that, in the context of the health crisis, the solidarity fund and the partial unemployment scheme have been accessible to associations – these schools are often associations – with an economic activity. Support for associative status structures takes many forms. It should be considered, if necessary, on an ad hoc basis, within the framework of the appropriations of the DRACs, in conjunction with the local and regional authorities concerned. Each association may be subject to specific treatment depending on the tasks it fulfils and the audiences it targets. That is why, for reasons of substance and form, I am not in favour of your amendments, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u87	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1815.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u88	It aims to allocate an additional €3 million to territorial art schools. You have praised, Madam Minister, the training provided by the higher schools of art in France. We are all aware that they form our artists and give France its weight in the world of culture at the global level. They are therefore of great importance. Since the reform, the forty-four higher schools of public art and design have awarded diplomas. They must carry out research activities, which they do through different programmes. However, it seems to us that the funding they receive has so far remained at the seed stage and is undersized in relation to their needs. I will not come back, Madam Minister, on the question of the status of teachers, but I would like an answer to that question before the end of the current term. This amendment simply proposes funding to abound research projects and to enable schools to do more, by bringing the voice of France to the international cultural field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u90	This amendment, which you tabled last year, Ms Victory, builds on the work you did as part of the flash mission with Fabienne Colboc in 2019. An amount of EUR 1 million is intended for the development of research in art schools. The development of research activities requires responses to calls for projects, but also the further reform of the status of teachers-researchers in these schools, as well as their support in structuring research activities. I fully agree with you on the principle that research must be developed in the higher institutions of culture, in the spirit of the Freedom of Creation, Architecture and Heritage Act (LCAP). I have invested a great deal on this subject in favour of the National Higher Schools of Architecture (ENSA), and an amendment by the Government, which we will discuss earlier, demonstrates the outcome of this work. You speak of complex inter-ministerial work, Mrs. Victory; I am well placed to know this, given the work I have done for the ENSAs. The problem is that the schools you are talking about are mostly territorial schools, 90% financed by local authorities. They must shoulder their responsibilities. As for the State, it must concentrate its resources on national schools, which require significant investment and resources. If the amendment is not withdrawn, I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u92	[[Smile]] The Special Rapporteur stressed the value of the report you gave, Mrs Victory, with Fabienne Colboc. This report has led us to launch a mission of the General Inspectorate of Cultural Affairs to assess the operability of your recommendations. The Ministry of Culture is not alone in manoeuvring: we are moving forward on this issue with the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports on the one hand, and with the Ministry of the Interior on the other. I will use a diplomatic term by saying that this dialogue is constructive but has not yet been concluded! I am this case with particular interest, as the Ministry of Culture is not alone in the manoeuvre. That explains why I express an opinion against the amendment while stressing the value of your concerns, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u93	Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2063 and 2064, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u94	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u95	The same thing, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u96	Amendment No 2063, which I have been defending for several years, is also intended to support artistic research in the higher schools of public art and design. The fund dedicated to artistic research has not been upgraded for many years. It represents only 18,000 euros per school, which is very insufficient to enable them to carry out their research projects. Let me turn to Amendment No 2064. Some art and design schools, as I indicated earlier, exempt scholarship students from registration fees, as can be done at university. But unlike the latter, they are not at all aided by the State when they take this step. If they choose to exempt some students from registration fees, it's on their own funds. However, not everyone can afford it, which leads to a break in equality between the students of the various art schools and between the students of art schools and the students of universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u98	We have already responded very broadly to Amendment No 2063. As far as the second is concerned, I would like to point out that scholarship students in national higher education schools can actually be reimbursed for their tuition fees and social security costs. It is true, on the other hand, that this scheme only partially concerns students in territorial schools. The problem, once again, is the distribution of competences: if the reimbursement of social security costs is ensured, students in territorial schools do not systematically benefit from exemption from their tuition fees. However, some schools offer such a waiver. I would also like to point out that the amount of tuition fees applicable in territorial schools is relatively low, since it amounts to between EUR 300 and 920 per year, the average being EUR 572. These figures are those of the Court of Auditors which pointed out this year that these amounts are much lower than those offered in private art schools, whose tuition fees generally amount to several thousand euros per year. Finally, I stress once again that these schools depend on local authorities and not on the state. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u100	It is indeed up to the local and regional authorities to carry out the social policies they wish towards their students; This is their responsibility. The State cannot be asked to compensate for the fact that the territorial authorities responsible do not insure a particular social policy. Like you, Madam Member, I invite the local authorities to assume their responsibilities and to exempt scholarship students from registration fees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u101	Amendment No 1816 by Mrs Michèle Victory is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u102	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 1926.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u103	It aims to support TOMA, Overseas Theatres in Avignon. For almost a quarter of a century, this structure has supported actors and the production of works by ultramarine artists. Believe me, it's hard to get them to Avignon for the festival! TOMA is supported by overseas communities as well as by overseas ministries and culture. The premises are located in the Chapel of the Incarnate Word, an exceptional place that I had the chance to visit this summer but which really requires work, Madam Minister. TOMA's project is very beautiful: for twenty-five years, nearly 250 shows have been supported and 3700 performances have taken place. This amendment proposes to help this structure through an investment budget designed to renovate the theatre of the Chapel of the Word incarnate and to implement a very beautiful project to develop a cultural space and to install a residence of authors. I wanted to draw your attention to this beautiful place and invite you to visit it. It is a place of production of plays but also of shows. Performances take place every year, not only during the festival but also throughout the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u105	I fully agree with you that the cultural diversity of our various ultramarine and hexagonal regions must be able to express itself. To my knowledge, there is an artistic and cultural exchange fund for overseas countries and territories, the FEAC, which supports ultramarine cultural diffusion in Hexagon. It is managed by the Overseas Ministry. Perhaps the TOMA structure could claim aid in this context. It must be recognized, however, that the situation you are referring to is very special. The building belongs to the town hall of Avignon and is not a subsidized theatre. I therefore rely on the minister's response. Request for withdrawal and, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u107	You know, Madam Member, that I am committed to overseas, to their cultures and to their cultural teams. I have testified in a remarkable way through a long journey that I have just made to La Réunion. The Overseas Theatres structure in Avignon – which I know, of course – plays an important role in the creation of shows. Your request will of course be met. It is not useful to provide additional funding: the ministry will pay close attention to the investment program that will be led to the Chapel of the Incarnate Word, which hosts TOMA. This project may give rise to an investment grant requested by this structure from the DRAC of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. It already has an envelope dedicated to investment projects on programme 131. Since the building is a listed historical monument, credits from programme 175 can also be mobilized, after study of the file of course, for certain parts of the renovation programme. Where appropriate, appropriations under programme 131 could also be mobilised to an extent that remains to be defined. So we already have all the conceptual and budgetary tools to follow the renovation of this historic and emblematic place, in terms of the mobilization of ultramarine cultural arts teams. If the amendment is not withdrawn, I shall give an unfavorable opinion, as it is somewhat satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u108	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u109	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that the commune and the region have already committed themselves. The structure is still waiting for a commitment from the State alongside it on this project. I am therefore pleased with your comments, and I know, Madam Minister, that you will pay close attention to them. I would also like to remind the Special Rapporteur that the FEAC is used under the structure's operating budget for travel costs. Its objective is to contribute to the exchanges between our territories and the hexagon and therefore cannot meet a need for investment. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u110	On the appropriations of the mission, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1813 and 1814, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u111	These two amendments, which I tabled last year, aim to highlight the role of women in artistic creation and thus to make women themselves more visible. We have more than once legislated on these issues, introduced quotas to promote parity, taken incentives to ensure that institutions recognize women's place within existing structures; But we have to go a lot further. Consequently, No. 1813 deals with the construction of a national women's museum, an initiative which, far from being pejorative, would make it possible to highlight all that they have created. No. 1814 is even more important to me because it aims to create a fund dedicated to the financing of the programming of works written by women. To take the example I had cited in committee, the Composatory Presence association has already listed in its database "Ask Clara" more than 15,000 works due to women, which is a pool for musicians; Without this tracking work, we would have had trouble getting them out of the shadows. This initiative should be able to be replicated in all other artistic fields; That is why, I repeat, I am particularly committed to this second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u112	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u113	Yes, three times yes, it is necessary to increase the visibility of women artists, creators. Mrs Victory, I support your fight, and you know that this cause is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture today – I am thinking for example of the Elles x Paris photo course, which, since 2018, highlights women photographers every year. The National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image (CNC) grants additional support to women and has imposed new obligations: parity of juries, gender statistics, etc. The Ministry, for its part, has set itself the goal of increasing the number of women in leadership positions in creative institutions. Finally, the results of the commissions for granting aid for artistic creation show that the share of this aid allocated to women is constantly increasing. I agree with you that we need to go further. However, the issues of equality in support and the visibility of women's creations require not only additional funding, but better allocation of current aid. I therefore ask you to withdraw these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u115	Same opinion. As far as I am concerned, I am not at all in favour of the creation of a national women's museum. All my efforts are aimed at establishing equality of representation, of mobilization, in the structures for which I am responsible, and not, precisely, to confine women within a specific structure. Truly, this proposal is not part of the positive momentum of fostering the plurality of speeches and views in each institution. On the other hand, although things are not entirely satisfactory, the progress we are making is not anecdotal: in the national theatres, the share of authors, which was 5% ten years ago, was 26% in 2018-2019; Between 2013 and 2019, the share of women's works in the acquisitions of the Fonds national d'art contemporain (FNAC) increased from 17% to 47%. In the field of cinema, to complement the statement made by the Special Rapporteur, in 2010 women represented 17% of the beneficiaries of the revenue advance: 41% in 2019. All this is the result not only of a general awareness, but also of a proactive policy of my ministry, which closely monitors it. I would add – this is a subject very much followed by Céline Calvez – that within public audiovisual companies, we are making sure to increase the number of experts on the shelves, although the health crisis leaves much to be said, as well as the number of works carried out by women, and to combat gender stereotypes in the programmes broadcast. Let us remember that the Ministry of Culture was the first administration to obtain from the Association française de normalisation (AFNOR) the labels Diversity and Professional Equality between Women and Men: we will always be at the side of those who are fighting for a better representation of women and for parity in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u116	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u117	I heard your answer, minister: the purpose of this museum would not be to relegate women to a box – on the contrary. A modern art museum is not meant to put modern art aside! Again, it is a question of developing valuation systems and drawing attention to the expression of women, although what has already been done in this area is very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u118	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2095.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u119	It aims to take into account the transfer of five full-time working equivalents (FTEs) from the payroll of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to Title 2 of the Ministry of Culture, in order to support research activities within the National Higher Schools of Architecture. These twenty institutions have been working since 2013 to move closer to the university model to develop research, which led to the reform of 2018 and the creation of a teacher-researcher status similar to that of academics. [["Yes! » and smiles on the benches of the LaREM group]] Today, I aim to bring this reform to an end. A report by the General Inspectorate of Cultural Affairs (IGAC) submitted at the end of 2020 detailed the budgetary and human resources required for this completion. The initial employment path provided for the recruitment of 150 teachers-researchers; To date, 75 posts have been created – 45 by the Ministry of Culture and 30 by the Ministry of Higher Education. We are committed to the multi-year consolidation of the human resources of the ENSA: the transfer of these five ETPTs will be significant in this regard. I hope an enthusiastic favourable opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u121	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] It will be more than favorable: alongside the ministries of culture and higher education, I have been actively working for more than a year to meet the commitments made during the 2018 reform. The development of research in the field of architecture undoubtedly has a meaning, because it is on the issues that need to be addressed – preserving climate and ecological balances, accompanying territorial transformation, strengthening social cohesion – that teachers-researchers will work. Therefore, I repeat, an extremely favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u122	I put to the vote the credits of the Culture mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u123	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 51 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u124	We have completed the review of the Culture Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u125	We are dealing with the examination of credits for the media, books and cultural industries (No. 4524, Annex 29; No 4597, Volume III; No 4526, Volume VIII), and the financial assistance account Public audiovisual advances. Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u126	Public support for the culture sector has been massive throughout the health crisis: it must now continue to support a fragile sector, hard hit by the consequences of this pandemic, which needs visibility to anticipate the future. I am thinking in particular of the sectors of music and live entertainment, whose actors do not expect a return to normal before the last quarter of 2022. Because of both the health constraints and the new uses that are spreading, it must be noted that the public has not entirely returned: in Limoges, for example, to date, there has been a decrease of about 40% in the number of visitors to cinemas. The recovery plan includes in the draft finance law for 2022 an allocation of EUR 128.5 million in payment appropriations: 35 million for the National Music Centre, which will benefit from a carry-over of 140 million from 2021 to 2022, as the cross-cutting support mechanisms have so far worked well; an additional 23 million for the book recovery plan; EUR 70 million for the plan for the press sector, several of which, in particular aid for freelancers, are barely being implemented. Beyond the recovery plan, the year 2022 must be an opportunity to plan for the future: in this regard, we can only welcome the 400 million earmarked for cultural industries under the new investment programme for the future, the IAP4. To place France at the top of the production of cultural and creative content must be a priority of the France 2030 plan: this will require, among other things, investment in training, given the labour shortages that affect the technical professions of audiovisual and cinema. By focusing your attention on the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, you will not fail to observe that its payment appropriations increase by 16 million on a constant basis: in this regard, I will focus on three points. It can first be noted that the allocation of the National Music Centre is increasing by €5 million, which is in line with its upward trend. But the longer-term financing of the institution raises questions. The existence of a single charge on ticketing does not coincide with its scope of action; Will it then be necessary to create a "stream tax" on the online distribution of music content? In fact, opinions are divided. I will have the opportunity to defend an amendment that will open this debate; This seems essential to me to boost NJC funding, in a context of attrition of collective management organization (CMO) revenues. 2 million euros are also being set aside for the creation of the future European Press Design House. These credits mark the launch of a much-anticipated project, while freedom of expression must be defended more than ever. Madam Minister, you indicated this during your visit to the Committee on Cultural Affairs: two locations are currently running to host the project. I obviously plead for the limougeaude application, on the site of Saint-Just-le-Martel; As you pointed out, it has the support of all local actors. If it were chosen, it would obviously be a sign of consideration for the role played by the territories in the field of culture. I am then pleased that €1.1 million in increased funding is available for the Local Radio Expression Support Fund (SERF), in line with the recommendations of my May report presented at the Spring Evaluation. This will help to absorb the increase in the number of eligible radios and guarantee the average amount granted to each. Work to establish an associative radio observatory will also have to progress in 2022. I come to conclude with the situation of the public audiovisual sector, for which 2022 is set to be a pivotal year. Following the further reduction of EUR 17 million planned for 2022, public operators will complete the overall savings plan of EUR 190 million, which had been decided in 2018. If productivity gains have been achieved without affecting the quality of programmes or investment in creation and digital technology, we must remain attentive to the changing social climate. I would add that the acceleration of the regionalisation of France 3 and its rapprochement with the France Bleu network is a strategic project; I'm particularly sensitive to it. It aims to bring information closer to our citizens and their daily lives, in a context of mistrust of the media. Finally, with regard to the fundamental question of the future contribution to the public audiovisual sector, I can only welcome the launch of the new joint mission of the Inspectorate-General for Cultural Affairs and the Inspectorate-General for Finance (IGF), which intends to closely involve parliamentarians in rethinking a new model of funding for the public audiovisual sector, while guaranteeing its independence and impartiality, to which we are all committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u127	Mrs Céline Calvez, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u128	The media budget, which is up 2.4 per cent, still reflects in some places the extension of support in response to the crisis, the effects of which – admittedly – continue to be felt, but it also clearly marks the outcome of many major reforms undertaken by the Government and Parliament during the quinquennium. For example, the Media, Book and Cultural Industries Mission benefits from the repatriation of some of the credits related to media distribution aid, which were previously included in the 134 Business Development and Regulation Programme. This transfer is accompanied by an expected reform of the aid for the distribution of the so-called "subscriber" press. Indeed, a change of model had become indispensable in order to enable La Poste to continue to carry out its mission of distributing the press without reducing the quality of the service or aggravating the deficit associated with this activity. A total of 105 million euros will be used to support the subscribed press in 2022. While we can only welcome this support, no other far-reaching reform has been carried out with regard to press aid, despite the numerous reports submitted to the Government or Parliament in this regard. In view of the real lack of transparency in the allocation of certain direct or indirect aid, we regret that. I am thinking here of some of the so-called political and general information titles that have been repeatedly condemned for incitement to racial hatred and for challenging crimes against humanity. Such securities should not be eligible for State aid. In addition, the increase in funding for the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission reflects the creation of the Authority for the Regulation of Audiovisual and Digital Communication, ARCOM, which emerged from the recent law of 25 October 2021 on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age. The merger, on 1 January 2022, of the CSA – Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – and the HADOPI – Haute Autorité pour la diffusion des oeuvres et la protection des droits sur internet –, together with this rising budget, means that the new authority will have the full means to carry out the many tasks entrusted to it by our Parliament after four years of work. State support in the cultural field also includes tax credits. Thus, in 2022, $60 million is provided to finance the tax credit for the first subscription to a newspaper. Given the late date of this arrangement, you recently announced, Madam Minister, that it would be renewed for another year. Such a decision seems most timely, even if the offer would have to be even better relayed by its indirect beneficiaries, i.e. the print media companies, in order to be fully effective. Let's take this opportunity: the goal is also that people offer each other press subscriptions at Christmas. In the field of books, while the increase in appropriations mainly reflects the deployment of the real estate projects of the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BNF) and the Bibliothèque publique d'information (BPI), it is also linked to the significant increase in the appropriations of the Centre national du livre (CNL), amounting to 1.7 million euros, which is not negligible in terms of its budget. This is in line with the ambition expressed by the President of the Republic, who has made reading a major national cause. The new credits will allow the CNL to ensure the development of the two major events, the Nights of Reading and Parting in Book, but also to participate in the remuneration of comic book authors present at festivals – we know how much they need financial support. Like the CNL, the National Music Centre and the National Film and Image Centre must return to a normal fiscal trajectory, after having had to manage large sums from the emergency and recovery plans. Revenues should be normalized, as we now hope for a return to normal attendance at cinemas and concert halls. Given the numerous postponements of concerts, funds that were not consumed in 2021, if any, may be needed in 2022. The second part of my budget opinion concerns the Public Audiovisual Advances Financial Assistance Account (CCF), whose appropriations follow the savings path decided by the Government in 2018, in accordance with the objective and means contracts (COM) signed this year. The trajectory has been respected, albeit downward, but its outline has highlighted the importance of pluriannuality in the financing of public media. However, we must be concerned fairly quickly about the future of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. I proposed in my report four avenues for reform; They may be considered as part of the mission entrusted to IGAC and IGF, whose creation you recently announced, the Minister. In Finland and Sweden, the fee has been transformed into an individual tax proportional to income; I think it's an interesting lead. I hope that Parliament will be fully involved in the work of this mission in the coming weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, because the media and the cultural and creative industries are essential to our democracy and to the influence of our culture, and because this rising budget measures what the state must devote to it, the committee has delivered an opinion in favour of the adoption of these budget lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u129	Mr Alain David, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u130	As with many other sectors, 2020 has been an extraordinary year for our external audiovisual industry. As I recalled last year in the Chamber, the operators of our external audiovisual company, France Médias Monde and TV5 Monde, have had to adapt their operating methods and ensure the protection of their employees while continuing to fulfil their information missions, particularly crucial in these times of crisis that may encourage disinformation. I would like to point out that crisis management was carried out without further assistance, with the exception of the EUR 500 000 allocated to both companies in the framework of the recovery plan. In addition, the crisis has taken place in an already fiscally constrained context for our external audiovisual sector. In line with its trajectory, revised downwards in 2018, France Médias Monde's allocation is in the PLF for 2022 to 254.2 million euros, down by 500,000 euros from last year, and that of TV5 Monde to 76.17 million euros, which is stabilized after a decline of more than 1 million euros in 2019. These declines occur as international competition continues to be stronger and offensive – the respective budgets of Deutsche Welle and BBC Worlwide are increasing very strongly, and those of Russia and China are apparently limitless. The year 2021 allowed us to look again towards the future and towards the deployment of the priority objectives which are at the heart of the missions of our external audiovisual; As I recall every year, it is a formidable tool of influence, of the influence of France and of the Francophonie and of support for our diplomacy, which promotes the values in which we believe and by its very existence defends freedom of information. To mention just a few examples, I will mention the linguistic development of France Médias Monde: the strengthening of its offer in African languages has been continued, in order to reach an ever wider and diverse audience, and the Spanish-speaking version of France 24 has been increased to 24 hours of daily broadcast, in a context of increasing audiences. In Latin America, France's demand remains strong, despite a decline in French which we can still stop if we give ourselves the means to do so. I will also mention Europe, which is already the subject of permanent attention and whose presence will be strengthened in the Group's programmes, in order to accompany the French Presidency of the European Union in 2022. For TV5 Monde, 2021 was marked by the French presidency of the channel and by the rise of the strategic plan 2021-2024, which aims to make it the world's channel, by increasing public awareness of environmental issues. I would like to end by addressing a crucial problem which is still pending: the future of financing our public audiovisual sector, which is being challenged by the gradual disappearance of the housing tax and the evolution of usage. Minister, there is an urgent need for business to respond to this, to put an end to an entirely anxiety-free climate of uncertainty – you can imagine it. It is imperative to exclude the budget track, as it would not allow the public audiovisual sector to have sustainable and specifically earmarked funding, even though it is a founding element of corporate independence. This is a vital question for our external audiovisual industry: it puts its credibility at stake abroad, at a time when the battle of influence is raging in the world. Despite the successes of our external audiovisual sector, I can therefore only vote against these appropriations, because they do not meet the challenges and ambitions that we must have in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u131	We turn to the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u132	First of all, I will deal quickly with appropriations relating to the public audiovisual sector. I know that many of our colleagues regretted the slight decrease in its allocations, which was foreseen in the contracts for objectives and means. But I believe that even with regard to the audiovisual sector, it is necessary to know how to rationalize public expenditure, especially when such an approach reflects, as is still the case here, an adaptation to the consumption patterns of citizens. This is not a question of lowering the quality of the service offered; We will all be vigilant on this point, of course. We will be equally vigilant about the evolution of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector; It must also know how to evolve with its time, allowing the French to contribute in a fair and balanced way while guaranteeing stable and sustainable funds. With regard to the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, I welcome the increase in its appropriations, which must be used in particular to help a very difficult press sector. Again this year, the support provided in the recovery plan to accompany the green and digital transition of the press is good news, as are the changes in distribution that will be initiated next year. These measures will, I hope, help the sector, which is currently looking for a new and viable economic model. I welcome the continued increase in appropriations decided last year for the local press and the ultramarine press. We often note the importance of the press for the vigour of our democracy: small media of local scope have a crucial role to play for the dynamism of territories sometimes far removed from the concerns of the major national titles. The same applies to local associative radio stations, whose role as community relays, emphasized by the CSA, must be strengthened in order to guarantee the vitality of our territories. These radios play an essential role in enabling community and private actors, or simply artists, to have access to local media. While I welcome the increase of more than 1 million in the budget allocated to them, I call on the Government to go even further to encourage the expression of all, as close as possible to the French. Finally, Madam Minister, let me return, as I did in committee, to the issue of the accessibility of library collections, as a follow-up to the bill on libraries and the development of public reading, which we adopted at first reading a month ago. Our discussions have made it possible to include in the text the need to make library collections accessible to persons with disabilities. I would like to thank Mr Florence Provender once again for his support on this issue. The objective of the measure that we introduced in the bill was to adapt the collections, and especially the writings, to people with all types of disability or disabling illness, but also to people with cognitive and learning disabilities, dys. I know the commitment of libraries on the subject: they are developing numerous initiatives to make accessible to all the treasures they contain. A 2017 report by the Centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie (CREDOC) showed this very well. However, as you said in committee, Madam Minister, digital books will have to be accessible to people with disabilities by 2022, in accordance with the EU directive on accessibility requirements for products and services. It is precisely in view of the entry into force of this directive that I believe it is essential to support libraries wishing to comply with it. While a portal for ordering e-books will be created, the additional costs associated with its use, as well as the necessary facilities and adaptations in libraries, cannot be a valid excuse for any delay in making the collections available. I'll only take one example. Currently, nearly 820,000 people are prevented from reading due to severe visual impairments. In order for libraries to be a true place of discovery and exchange for all, we must treat each one equally and with dignity. That is, in any case, the meaning of an amendment that I will defend earlier. Members of the IDU and independent group welcome the level of funding allocated to the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, but will remain attentive to the evolution of the budget discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u133	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u134	This speech, with which I associate my colleague Michel Larive, will deal with two subjects which we consider to be of major importance: aid to the press – and therefore the plurality of the media – on the one hand; the public audiovisual crisis, on the other hand. As regards aid to the press, the appropriations allocated to it are increasing sharply this year, by 53.3%, to reach EUR 62.3 million. Press aid absorbs almost all of the increase in the budget of the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, which accounts for 70.9 million. On the other hand, appropriations to support pluralism are down 1.2 million compared to last year. The resources allocated to the local media are not increasing: they are therefore declining, if inflation is taken into account. This distribution of funds is clearly contrary to the improvement of media pluralism. On July 5, 2021, the association Acrimed published an article entitled "The clan of billionaires grabs aid to the press". In this article, journalist Frédéric Lemaire lists the titles and press groups that received direct and indirect support to the press between 2016 and 2019. It shows that in 2019 "more than half (51%) of the 76 million euros allocated in press aid went to six groups, belonging to eight wealthy families or businessmen". Madam Minister, you told me in committee that press aid was limited to EUR 1 million and that I was wrong. We checked: this limit applies to press titles. Large groups, however, have several titles and can cumulate media aid, amounting to several million euros in aid. This is the case, for example, of the Le Monde libre group, of which Xavier Niel is the head, which received 5.2 million aid in 2019. This correction shows, Madam Minister, that you can deliver your arguments as if they were revealed truths, but that does not make you right! By subsidising the distribution throughout the country of a handful of daily newspapers held by a small number of billionaires, you are strengthening their grip on the French press instead of supporting pluralism and diversity. I also want to alert our assembly about the merger between TV channels TF1 and M6. The TF1 group owns the eponymous channel, but also the channels LCI, TMC, TFX, TF1 Series Films, Ushuaia TV, History TV and TV Breizh. Now, thanks to the merger with the M6 group, he will also own the channels M6, W9, 6ter, Gulli, Paris Première, Téva, Série Club, Canal J, TiJi, MCM, MCM Top and RFM TV. This list in the Prévert speaks for itself: the hyperconcentration which is announced in the press, with groups similar to those of television, flouts the very idea of plurality in the media. With regard to the public audiovisual crisis, this public service experienced an unprecedented austerity cure during the quinquennium. Last week, in committee, you hammered out the argument of the recovery plan. My colleague Michel Larive was wrong because the recovery plan provided €45 million for France Télévisions! Here too, I checked: in total, the public audiovisual industry lost 229.25 million compared to the 2017 budget. For France Télévisions, the decrease is 191 million, i.e. a 7.35 % decrease in its appropriations, to which must be added the cumulative inflation of 5.6%. As for the other public audio-visual entities, they also recorded significant reductions in their budget compared to 2017: 1.37 million less for Arte France, 36.32 million for Radio France, 2.75 million for France Médias Monde, 1.13 million for the Institut national de l'audiovisuel, and 2.23 million finally for TV5 Monde, Whatever you say, the Government has no support for this essential public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u135	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u136	In the face of the losses accumulated since 2017, the credits of the recovery plan have had very little effect. However, the situation is going to get worse, as the overall budget for the public audiovisual sector for 2022 is again down by EUR 2 million. France Télévisions is the public undertaking most affected by budget cuts. The 2020-2022 target and average contract indicates that, since 2012, the group's total workforce has been reduced by 1,469 full-time equivalents (FTEs), a decline of 14% in ten years. Last year, an additional 395 FTEs were abolished. France Télévisions, however, remains the first French medium and affects, on average, 81% of the population every week, or nearly 49 million people. I would also point out that the French channel Ô was abolished during the quinquennium, a sign of the Government's lack of consideration for our overseas compatriots. The group La France insoumise will vote against the budget of the mission Media, books and cultural industries, because this budget is in line with the destructive policy that the Government has been pursuing for the past five years, to the detriment of the public service of the audiovisual sector and to the benefit of large groups of private media.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u137	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u138	The two missions we are looking at today's budget proposals, the Media, Book and Cultural Industries and Public Audiovisual Advances missions, have not received the same financial support in recent years, which we regret. While the first one sees its credits increase by 12 per cent, which we welcome, our public audiovisual sector is undergoing the austerity cure imposed by the Government, which has thus earned a saving of 200 million euros since 2018! The term "trajectory" used by the Government to give a positive appearance to this evolution is ultimately only used to mask the reality of the declines in funding. Yet, in a highly competitive environment, the audiovisual sector has been subject to many changes for several years. The first is the increase in supply since the arrival on the French market of the American giants, which has transformed the consumption patterns of the French. On this subject, we will support Mr Constance Le Grip's amendment to support the creation of a press editor-specific CMO. The second change in the audiovisual sector is the increase in the consumption of information during the health crisis, which is too often affected by false news on social networks or in some media, with good practices far from being the majority. Third, the sector is currently undergoing a worrying upheaval, linked to one of the largest operations in its history, which takes place in complete indifference: the merger of the two largest private television groups, TFI and M6. Faced with these multiple risks, the Government and the majority have chosen to impose budget cuts on all public audiovisual entities in the 2022 finance bill, with respective reductions of 14 million euros for France Télévisions, 2 million for Radio France and 400,000 euros for Arte and France Médias Monde – my colleagues have already pointed out. You said, Madam Minister, that public broadcasting was a jewel that needed to be protected. Beyond the formulas, the public audiovisual sector is waiting for tangible proof of love! While all the reports on the execution of the objectives and means contracts of these entities underline the role played during the health crisis by the public service stations and radio stations, which have fulfilled tasks of general interest, the Socialist and related group can only regret this strategy of "remediation" of their finances. We will therefore ask, as a minimum, for the re-establishment of the appropriations approved by the original finance law for 2021 for the whole sector and the increase in the number of FTEs of France Télévisions. Finally, we regret the total absence of a project for the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. However, it is necessary to make it better accepted by the French and to adapt it to their consumption of the media. With regard to the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, we welcome the 22 per cent increase in funding from the 180 Press and Media programme: it is welcome to accompany a sector weakened by the crisis, faced with an increase in the number of freelance journalists in precarious situations. [[Digital Audio Broadcasting]] Strengthening of the Local Radio Expression Support Fund, amounting to 1.1 million, was also necessary, but the resources allocated to the development of the DAB+ are insufficient. With regard to the appropriations allocated to the 334 Book and Cultural Industries programme, we consider that the 5 million to be allocated to the National Music Centre is insufficient in view of the tasks it carried out during the crisis and its longer-term role. The NJC was able to manage the allocation of aid from the various support funds, including the Ticket Loss Compensation Fund. The representatives of the unions we interviewed unanimously acknowledged the value of the NJC and recalled the urgency of sustaining its budget, so that it could act in the long term. The low allocation of the CNM and the maintenance of its staff at 111 FTEs do not allow it to put its action on a sustainable basis – let us remember that there are 800,000 cultural companies in our country. We are also concerned about the private live show, which suffers major losses in ticketing. Our concern has recently been reinforced by the decree restoring gauges to 75% for standing concerts, while wearing the mask seemed to be an adequate response. We do not understand this decision. In the film sector, support has been important for operators, distributors and arts agencies, but ticketing is also difficult to cover – 51% of people who go to the cinema at least once a year have not returned. You know the numbers, minister, and we're worried about them. Several of us stressed the importance of measures to assist the press. With regard to the book sector, in addition to supporting libraries, bookstores and publishers, who are likely to be affected by the increase in paper costs, we ask that the funds allocated to authors better reflect our support. We debated this subject during the examination of the appropriations of the Culture mission, but I want to return to it. You indicated, Madam Minister, that several of the recommendations of Bruno Racine's report, "The Author and the Act of Creation", were being implemented. The echoes we have are somewhat different. While the problem is complex, the precarious situation of many authors must remain at the heart of our concerns. Much remains to be done, and there is an urgent need for solutions in terms of classification of activities, retirement or daily allowances. You mentioned the lack of consensus in the sector. The negotiations must therefore move forward in order to bring about strong measures. In conclusion, because of our reservations about the appropriations allocated, in the 2022 finance bill, to support the public audiovisual sector, the Socialists and related groups will not vote in favour of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u139	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u140	As we look at the last finance bill in this Parliament, I would like to welcome the 2.4 per cent increase in the appropriations of the Media, Books and Cultural Industries mission, which exceeds 675 million euros. These funds complete the reforms undertaken in recent years and contribute to the strengthening of these sectors, which have been severely affected by the health crisis and have already been weakened by digital transformations. With regard to the Press and Media programme, payment appropriations amount to EUR 350 million. They are stable, apart from an increase linked to a budget transfer, on which I shall return. With regard to the financial relations between the State and Agence France-Presse (AFP), the appropriations are stable, amounting to EUR 134 million, in accordance with the AFP's objective and resources contract. I would remind you that this is the third world news agency and that it plays a crucial role in the fight against false information. I hope that the fact-finding mission on the application of neighbouring law for the benefit of agencies, publishers and professionals in the press sector will propose ways of thinking about fairer remuneration linked to neighbouring law, a fundamental reform that we have voted for. As far as the press sector is concerned, 2022 will undoubtedly be a pivotal year. It will be marked by the roll-out of the recovery plan, of which 140 million euros are dedicated to the support of the sector; by the introduction of the tax credit for a first subscription to a newspaper; and, following the creation of France Messagerie, through the implementation of the Filière presse plan, which motivates the transfer of 62 million euros from programme 134 to implement the reform of the distribution of the subscribed press. Support for local media is stable, and I welcome the more than 3% increase in the fund to support local radio expression, which is essential to the social link in our territories. The budget resources of the Book and Cultural Industries programme are increasing to €296 million and complement our reforms in the areas of audiovisual regulation, financing of audiovisual and film production, recorded music and public reading. In concrete terms, the budgetary resources of the cultural industries are declining, but this is mainly due to the transfer of the €8 million allocated to HADOPI to the 308 programme Protection of rights and freedoms, devoting the resources of the APF. This transfer is the result of the creation of ARCOM, a new regulator with extensive control and sanction powers in the face of developments in audiovisual piracy, the creation of which the Minister defended. I am very pleased that this important reform is reflected in the budget. With regard to the National Music Centre, which has shown its relevance during the health crisis, it will continue its rise in 2022, with more than 11 million euros. As for the book sector, its budget is up 3%: it is a strong support in this year of great national cause dedicated to reading, and after the unanimous vote on the bill on libraries, whose role is so important to allow everyone access to the book. These means will include completing the work at the BNF and strengthening the means of intervention of the National Book Centre. The public audio-visual advances financial assistance account amounts to €3.7 billion and respects the downward fiscal trajectory of 2018. I am pleased that the France 4 channel has been kept in a new configuration, with daytime and cultural programming in the evening. I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the establishment of a working group on audiovisual fees. I stress the importance of sustainable financing, adapted to usage and dynamic, to face the competition of linear television channels that are considering their consolidation and GAFAMs. While some propose privatising the public audiovisual sector, it is necessary to recall that these companies are a reference in terms of reliable information. They have proven their exemplary management by complying with the financial trajectory, their tremendous responsiveness and their ability to manage synergies during the health crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The appropriations for this mission consolidate and strengthen these essential sectors. They are also implementing the reforms decided on since the beginning of the legislature, which is why the moving Republic Group will vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u141	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u142	Members of Parliament The Republicans regret that once again the Government has chosen to reduce the appropriations allocated to the public audiovisual sector. We recognize a certain consistency in this regard, since, since 2017, the budget allocated to the audiovisual sector has been declining. For 2022, this will be EUR 15 million less for France Télévisions, EUR 3 million less for Radio France and EUR 2 million less for Arte. Above all, these declines are taking place without the great reform of the audiovisual sector, which promised us a holding, a source of savings. During the debate on the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, it was presented as a response to the challenges of rationalizing the expenditure of the various public service television channels. If the health crisis can explain that this project is delayed, unfortunately it seems to have been buried. Do we have to understand that the ambition is no longer to create the synergies that only France Médias was supposed to facilitate? MEPs The Republicans point out that the abolition of the housing tax by 2023 puts uncertainty on the future financing of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. We had pointed out this during the previous debates on this measure. It is equally worrying that the contracts for objectives and means which do not apply beyond 2022, the public audiovisual sector is forced to be piloted on a visual basis, as the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, Céline Calvez, pointed out. Does this explain the benevolence with which the Government considers the breaches made to these contracts of objectives and means, whether by France Télévisions or by Radio France? It must be noted that the ban on advertising after twenty hours has been circumvented by means of advertising sponsorships. In addition to regularly postponing the start of France Télévisions' programmes beyond twenty-one hours, these sponsorships are a circumvention of the spirit of the 2009 law. The latter do not respond very much to the public interest requirement to be broadcast after 20 hours. In the context of the decline in the public allocation in France Télévisions, it is therefore possible to question the volume of advertising revenues generated by these sponsorship contracts for programmes broadcast at the beginning of the evening. There would indeed be a solution, albeit partial, but which would have the merit of existing: to reallocate the tax on electronic communications operators (TOCE) to the financing of France Télévisions. It would therefore be EUR 300 million that would be used to finance the public audiovisual sector. This is all the more logical since this tax was intended to compensate for the loss of revenue due to the abolition of evening advertising. As far as Radio France is concerned, I am concerned that the ceiling on advertising revenues has been exceeded. Indeed, in 2019, for example, when the ceiling was set by the COM at EUR 42 million, advertising revenues finally reached EUR 48 million. While the Court of Auditors merely noted the overrun, which the APF called on the department to clarify this ambiguity that occurred in 2019, the ministry closed its eyes, given the benefits to public finances. I regret that this is done at the expense of private radio stations, which are exsanguated, being heavily dependent on this source of revenue. I also had the opportunity to share this concern with the APF at the recent hearing of its president, Roch-Olivier Maistre, who told me in response that it was up to the parent department to take steps to enforce the commitments made under the objective and means contract. We hope that the department will pay particular attention to the fact that this practice of overtaking no longer occurs. The reduction of the money allocated to the Round House cannot justify non-compliance with the COMs. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the financing of the print press. Beyond the debate on the relevance of direct aid, which for the coming year represents not far from EUR 180 million, I believe that everything that enables the press to generate its own income should be supported. Some search engines, including Google, the main one, adopt predatory behavior that our right must no longer tolerate. Despite the adoption of the Neighboring Rights Directive in 2019 and its transposition, Google has still not adopted a responsible and constructive attitude; This is evidenced by the reminders to the order of the Autorité de la concurrence, which pointed out the exceptional gravity of Google's behaviour, as well as the fine of 500 million euros imposed on it. As the search engine seeking by all means to evade its obligations arising from the recognition by French law of neighbouring rights, it seems essential to me that the Ministry of Culture should not exclude the possibility of further prosecution in order to enforce our legislation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, the budget of the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission unfortunately contains too many contradictions. And if it was necessary to add one last argument, our abstention is reinforced by the Court of Auditors' analyses. There has been no ex post evaluation of the new schemes, and there is no mechanism to identify any malfunctions, such as windfall or overcompensation effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u143	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u144	This finance bill, the last of this Parliament, is once again ambitious and forward-looking. The funds allocated to the Media, Books and Cultural Industries Mission are representative, up over 11%. After almost two years of a health crisis with significant economic repercussions, the Government is sending a strong signal by increasing its support to the print, audio-visual, radio and online media and to the cultural industries in all their diversity. The Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is pleased to see that the recovery plan is translated into concrete action in these sectors which are dear to our citizens and which play an important role in our democracy. The policies set out in the Media Program have been consistent with our actions since the beginning of this Parliament. They will include €8 million in support of the environmental transition in the press and €36 million in support of regional press printing works, as well as a contribution to the European House of Press Drawing and Satirical Drawing. I also welcome the action to be taken in the fight against the precariousness of journalists, thanks to a dedicated campaign fund and exceptional aid. Indeed, these mechanisms seem to us to be essential in order to best support those who have suffered loss of income in the last two years. These numerous measures will support and consolidate a sector affected by the health crisis and, more broadly, finance its necessary adaptation to economic and environmental challenges. The Book and Cultural Industries program is not forgotten. The draft budget thus enshrines the policy of accompanying local authorities in favour of the development and modernisation of libraries. This is a fundamental ambition, which we have been feeding since the beginning of the quinquennium, and which must allow for better access for everyone to libraries, and thus to reading and culture, by strengthening territorial networking. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is pleased that this ambition is being defended until the last budget of the mandate. We are also satisfied with the content of the Public Audiovisual Advances Financial Assistance Account, which is in line with the sector's transformation plan. The latter aims in particular to strengthen the proximity offer, thanks to the networks of France 3 and France Bleu, an essential element to bring ever more finer and more relevant information to our citizens. We are also delighted at the increased visibility of the overseas countries and territories. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Support for these policies marks our commitment to the values of cultural accessibility and support for the various forms of the press. That is why our group will vote for the credits from the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u145	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u146	The review of the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission provides an opportunity to address the situation of the public audiovisual sector, whose credits show a decrease of 17.7 million euros, i.e. 14.3 million for France Télévisions, 2.6 million for Radio France and 400,000 euros for Arte and France Médias Monde – figures that speak for themselves. At its hearing by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education on 20 October, the President and CEO of Radio France, Sibyle Veil, nevertheless alerted the budget cuts by stating that "new savings would inevitably go through a reduction in offers". Note that Radio France is the scene of a very continuous strike against the Prod'cast project, a reorganization project committed to meet the demand of the State, which requires a plan of savings of 60 million euros. This process, which has been under way for more than ten years, calls into question the means dedicated to production and affects the diversity of the offer as well as the quality of the programmes offered. We obviously support employees in their fight against this project, which impoverishes all production. The situation of France Télévisions is equally alarming. Is it necessary to recall the existence of a plan to outsource jobs to the production subsidiary France.tv Studio (FTV Studio)? This plan, under pressure from the state, which imposes budgetary savings, has led to a harmful social situation. Even if the direction seems – at last! – to measure the catastrophic human consequences and announced, on 21 October, to abandon the mandatory nature of transfers, it does not completely interrupt the process and does not specify the conditions for its implementation. The president of France Télévisions, who was interviewed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education on 6 October, rightly indicated that this house had been in a permanent social plan for ten years, which led to the abolition of 1500 FTEs during this period. Let us only imagine what such a process means to employees. [[Ms. Michèle Peyron exclaimed]] In this regard, we are concerned about the new reference model clearly adopted by Delphine Ernotte-Cunci and the way in which she referred to the efforts made by employees during the crisis: "During these eighteen months, we all felt that we were operating in startup mode. Employees have shown impressive innovation and agility. We know this government's fascination with start-ups, but the commitment and professionalism of employees are the result of the know-how of this public service, and nothing else. Because of the current serious democratic crisis, we are strongly alerting the Government to the risks to the public audiovisual service, which must be pluralistic, strong and well-funded. This quinquennium will have been particularly formidable for the public audiovisual sector in the overseas regions. As of February 2020, the savings plan was translated into the end of the broadcast of France Culture and France Musique on the FM band. More than two million listeners are thus deprived of direct access to these two major public service stations: only France Inter remains accessible. According to the CEO of Radio France, maintaining this broadcast would be too expensive in a context of forced means. The time difference would also be an obstacle: I would remind you that there is only two hours – three at the most – of a time difference between the Round House and La Réunion; This argument therefore does not hold. The savings plan therefore has an exorbitant cost for the overseas countries: it calls into question equal access to national airwaves. As for the solution offered to listeners – falling back on the internet – it ignores the digital divide and equipment constraints. To this, we must add the abolition of France Ô, the only free channel to suffer this fate since 1992: the bouquet of digital terrestrial television (TNT) in the overseas countries is also still shrinking. At the meeting, the free version of the TNT, which had only ten channels at its launch in 2010, had only seven channels in the past year. In order to access the 20 national coverage channels available in Hexagon, ultramarine viewers need to go via satellite or internet – two pay-for solutions. I would also like to point out that parliamentary channels are still not broadcast by TNT overseas: we do not have access either to La Chaîne parlementaire (LCP) or to Public Senate. The plurality of information, openness to the world and quality local production are all objectives that overseas countries share and demand. But the balance they assume, as demanding as it is precious, is well undermined. Finally, we note that the budget for 2022 seems to ignore what everyone else is seeing. Many have already fired the alarm bell and alerted your ministry to the shortage of paper that will affect both the press and the book. However, there is nothing in the Mission's appropriations to indicate that this unprecedented and long-term shortage is to be taken into account to help the book and press sectors, unless you consider that the inevitable increase in the price must be passed on to the readers – a hypothesis all the more unfortunate, you will agree, that reading has been declared a great national cause. [[Ms. Michèle Victory applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u147	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u148	Funding for the Media, Books and Cultural Industries mission will increase by 2.4 per cent in 2022, reaching €619 million. The Action Together Group welcomes this increase, which is in line with the massive effort made by the Government to support the sector during the crisis and the specific sectoral plans initiated with the recovery plan. In the field of the media, the disavowal of the press, in a context of widespread distrust, is a very bad signal for the vitality of our democracy. The media, however, have an essential role to play in informing our citizens and in combating the proliferation of false news. The health crisis has aggravated the situation of a sector structurally in difficulty and has called on it to make its transition to digital technology, as evidenced by the continued erosion of the number of readers of the print press. In this sense, our public policies have a decisive role to play in favour of the media: it is a matter of preserving at all costs the economic base of the media, of ensuring their independence and of fostering pluralism essential to the vitality of the democratic debate. Press aid was increased during the quinquennium. Aid for pluralism has thus increased by 27%. In addition, we have sustained the special aid schemes for ultramarine titles and online press services introduced during the health crisis. The Action Together Group is also pleased with the EUR 1.1 million strengthening of the SRF in 2022. This increase will increase the number of community and local radio stations benefiting from the Fund. The year 2022 will also be the year of the entry into force of the reform of the distribution of the subscriber press. This long-awaited reform will allow for better distribution of daily newspapers and newsweeks by introducing a single tariff for posted titles and support for the copy carried. The aim is to increase the attractiveness of the print media offer to cope with the rise in digital usage. To this end, €62 million will be transferred from programme 134 to programme 180 Press and media. With regard to the book and cultural industries sector, it should be noted that the book economy has been deeply affected in recent years by the development of digital technology and the arrival of powerful players in the market. The crisis related to covid-19 has further accelerated the evolution of usage by encouraging home delivery. By providing an additional €1.5 million to democratize books and reading, this draft finance bill is part of the momentum in favour of libraries driven by the Government and our majority since 2017. This dynamic responds to the ambition expressed by the President of the Republic, who has made reading a major national cause. It first manifests itself through the Libraries Plan, which increased the resources allocated by the State to communities by €8 million in order to support extensions of opening hours, in line with the recommendations of the report drawn up by Erik Orsenna and Noël Corbin. Funding for investment in the construction and renovation of libraries was then increased by EUR 15 million for the 2021 and 2022 financial years under the Recovery Plan. Finally, in early October, the National Assembly adopted the Senate Bill on Libraries and the Development of Public Reading. We also support independent bookstores, essential to the development of reading and our daily neighbourhood life. In the continuation of this action, our group also welcomes the strengthening of the resources allocated to the National Book Centre. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Bruno Studer, Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, also applauds]] Lamartine taught us that "all great readings are a date in existence". We must support the book and reading, because they allow us to grasp the complexity of the world, to understand the need for otherness, in a time when knowledge must laugh with tolerance, and to think of the long time, at a time when some are seeking permanent controversy and media noise. The Action Together Group welcomes the momentum for access to culture and information for all confirmed in this draft budget. We will therefore vote in favour of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u149	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u150	Cultural industries are a major vector of our country's influence, but face formidable challenges. Marie-Ange Magne stressed this: like other cultural channels, they have been strongly affected by the health crisis and are undergoing profound changes. This is why public support for the press, book, media and film sector has been massive and constant throughout the health crisis, and will continue in 2022. The second anniversary of the France Plan revives and the 2.4% increase in the Mission's appropriations compared to 2021, which Béatrice Piron praised, testify to this. In the face of major developments in the cultural industries, this five-year period will have led to far-reaching and indispensable reforms. On the occasion of the presentation of the last budget of the mandate, I would like to recall some aspects of it, as well as their budgetary variations, in this finance bill. In the press sector, we are continuing the deployment of the ambitious plan launched last year to the tune of €483 million over two years, including €140 million under the France Recovery Plan. In this context, the €70 million planned for 2022 will continue to support the modernisation and transformation of the sector, ultimately ensuring the pluralism of the press, both as a pillar of democracy and as a major challenge for social cohesion. Pierre-Yves Bournazel pointed out at the moment: 2022 will also be the year of the entry into force of the reform of the postal transport of the press – a reform much expected by all the actors – which will encourage the so-called "hot" press to turn to portage and will allow to unify postal tariffs for all the titles. The draft budget for 2022 reflects this reform, including the repatriation of part of the appropriations dedicated to the compensation of postal transport from the press to the Press and Media programme for €62.3 million. In addition, in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the mission is planning a €2 million allocation for the project to create a House of Press Drawing, to which, as I know, many of you are attached in this Chamber – is that not it, Mr Geismar? The book sector will benefit from substantial State support through the increase of the public service subsidy of the Bibliothèque nationale de France, to the amount of €2 million, and the intervention appropriations of the Centre national du livre, to the amount of €1.7 million. These measures are accompanied, many of you have stressed, by the extension of the arrangements in favour of bookstores and libraries, provided for in the framework of France Recovery, to the tune of 23 million. These measures reinforce the stated ambition of the President of the Republic to enshrine the great national cause. [[Ms. Florence Provendier applauds]] The music sector has seen, once again thanks to parliamentarians, the creation, in 2020, of the Centre national de la musique, which proved, during the crisis, how essential it was to the sector, mobilising 152 million euros of exceptional resources in 2020 as well as an envelope of 200 million euros over two years in the framework of France Recovery – which responds to the question posed by Michèle Victory. We have also decided to further increase our support for this sector, which is very affected by the crisis. The Government will thus defend, in the context of the examination of non-attached articles, an amendment to extend the exemption from the performance tax in the second half of 2021. We have also worked for the film and audiovisual sectors. The exceptional aid provided by the State since the beginning of the health crisis in favour of the French film industry – 436 million sectoral aid and 1.3 billion cross-cutting schemes – has saved our businesses and helped the creators during a period of crisis. I am of course thinking of the guarantee fund for filming, extended until the end of the year, the sectoral emergency funds set up by the CNC or the aid for distributors, producers and operators in order to compensate in part for the effects of the introduction of the health pass on attendance. Beyond short-term aid, this five-year period has led to an ambitious reform of the financing of the creation and regulation of these sectors through the transposition of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive (AMS) and the final Copyright Directive, as well as the law on the regulation and protection of access to works in the digital age, published in the Official Journal on 25 October. All of these reforms will help to better protect French creation and copyright by providing for the contribution of all broadcasters to French creation and by organising a more equitable value-sharing between platforms, producers and authors. In total, with the reform of the financing of creation, investment in cinema and audiovisual could increase by 20% by 2022, representing more than 250 million euros. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, sustained support for the cultural industries has thus increased by 9% in five years. This support was accompanied by the deployment of the €225 million fund dedicated to investment in creative enterprises, as well as the exceptional €400 million available under the new investment programme for the future PIA 4. To this is added the cultural aspect of the France 2030 plan, which aims to produce the cultural content of tomorrow. The 600 million euros invested will be distributed as follows: 200 million in immersive technologies and virtual and augmented reality, 300 million in new filming and digital production infrastructures and 100 million in professional training in the film, audiovisual and video games sector. Finally, concerning the public audiovisual sector, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, the financing will continue to respect in 2022 the trajectory undertaken in 2018 and confirmed in the contracts of objectives and means of these companies, signed in the spring. This fiscal trajectory, which leads us to rationalize – to use the word used by Béatrice Descamps – is demanding but realistic, as the 190 million decrease between 2018 and 2022 represents about 5% over four years. I note, in reply to Brigitte Kuster and Karine Lebon, that the companies in the sector have thus contributed, each to the extent of its margin of manoeuvre, to the effort to control public expenditure, which you also call of your wishes, dear Mrs Kuster – every time the credits increase, you regret it, but every time they decrease, you also regret it. I note, moreover, that this modest decrease in the budget allocated did not cause any decline in audience and that some operators even sprayed private competition, which allowed them to generate advertising revenues higher than those observed in 2019. By the way, I doubt that the creation of a holding company would save money in this area. It is well known that, when a new structure is created, it entails additional costs in terms of premises, staff and means – furniture among others. I would also like to stress that this trajectory has been a firm commitment of the Government, which has thus guaranteed the sector multi-year visibility of its resources. I would like to say that, for the first time in the history of the public audiovisual industry, the Government has committed itself, as early as 2018, to a multi-year financial trajectory that has been respected to the nearest euro. Moreover, this has not affected the fulfilment of its tasks: the commitments to creation have been preserved; joint editorial offers have been launched; Culturebox was created; France 4 has been perpetuated. I would add that the State has provided additional support to the sector, amounting to EUR 73 million from the recovery appropriations, in order to enable it to absorb the effects of the health crisis. I cannot mention this chapter without mentioning the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, which has been mentioned by many of you. As you know, no change is planned in 2022, but the planned removal of the housing tax raises the question of its future, which is also part of an old debate on its adaptation. Various avenues for reform are possible. The work already carried out has made it possible to identify them but absolutely does not allow a final arbitration to be concluded, as they did not prioritise the possible options, merely identifying them without issuing channels of operability. In-depth analysis is therefore required. It will be conducted as part of a dedicated mission, entrusted to the IGAC and IGF inspections. I would point out, dear Céline Calvez, that parliamentarians will of course be involved in this very important work. [[Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel and Mrs Florence Provendier applaud]] It should be pointed out that the financing of public broadcasting through the general budget is in any case excluded from the scope of the reflection, which Alain David and undoubtedly many other Members will welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bruno Studer, Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applaud]] The mission's proposals should make it possible to identify a sustainable resource, adapted to the reality of current audiovisual uses, capable of ensuring a performance equivalent to CAP and compatible with the guarantee of the independence of the public audiovisual sector and the requirement of predictability of its resources. I think I have been perfectly clear on this point. I would like to take this opportunity to strongly reaffirm, in the face of unacceptable attacks and the challenges facing the public audiovisual sector, that it fulfils essential tasks for our citizens, missions which the private media cannot or do not want to carry out and which bring real added value. The public audiovisual service is both a reference and independent information offer in which the French place their confidence, more than ever necessary in a context of proliferation of false online information; a proximity offering based on a territorial anchoring closest to the French, through the networks of France 3 and France Bleu; an unparalleled cultural offer in the audiovisual landscape and essential support for the creative world, resulting in 570 million support for audiovisual and film production in 2020 – and this continues today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as on the benches of the commissions]] The last five-year budget for the media, up 2.4 per cent, is the result of many major reforms undertaken by the Government and Parliament since the beginning of the quinquennium. Beyond the present accompaniment of our cultural channels, it makes it possible resolutely to prepare for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u153	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the length of questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u154	Like many of my colleagues, I welcome the steady and significant increase in the culture budget since 2017, particularly in the finance bill we are considering this morning. We are talking here about an additional EUR 507 million, committed since the beginning of the quinquennium, and 13.6 billion mobilised for culture during the crisis. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, no country has done so much in this regard. Program 334, Book and Cultural Industries, is no exception to this dynamic, with an increase of 13.2 million compared to the PLF for 2021. With regard to public reading, and although this is a decentralized competence, the State is stepping up its efforts to support local and regional authorities to ensure the development and modernization of libraries, in line with the announcements made by the President of the Republic last June, who designated reading as a major national cause, recognizing in fact that libraries work for the benefit of society as a whole. Access to libraries and the development of reading are two major public policy issues. They represent real levers of individual emancipation, which allow everyone to understand each other better. They open the doors of self-knowledge, of others and of the world, they contribute to access to citizenship and to the full exercise of democracy. Libraries must be accessible to all, and must remain accessible under all circumstances. By this I mean that we must also guarantee the accessibility of places and content to persons with disabilities or, more broadly, to those who are prevented, whatever they may be. In order to continue the efforts to democratise the book and read, the PLF for 2022 has an additional €1.5 million. This is essential at a time when the crisis and the necessary health measures can have an impact on the access of the most vulnerable to their rights, such as access to reading or mediation. So, minister, I have two questions. Can you tell us how these various appropriations will be drawn up? Is a strengthening of the logic of "going to" and off-wall library initiatives envisaged, so that we can all benefit from the multiple services offered by our libraries?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u155	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u156	You underline the State's efforts to support public reading and libraries. A major effort has been made in this area since 2017, not only with the deployment of the Library Plan – following the report submitted by Erik Orsenna and Noël Corbin – but also as part of France's relaunch. This constant support of the State is also illustrated by the decision taken by the President of the Republic to establish reading as a major national cause. This issue is not limited to budgetary issues. Parliament has taken full account of this through the adoption of two bills, unanimously passed on these benches – we must welcome him and thank you for that. The intervention appropriations dedicated to the policy of books and reading in this PLF amount to EUR 29.5 million. In addition to the appropriations entered in programme 334, all the appropriations allocated to the various central or decentralized arrangements for the development of reading under the ABC are included in the new programme 361. For example, an additional EUR 1.5 million will be devoted to the EAC component of the Book and Reading project, particularly to the conclusion of new territorial-reading contracts, departmental contracts with local authorities, but also to projects involving libraries, associations, leisure centres and neighbourhood houses, as close as possible to the French. They will thus reinforce the logic of the "go to" that you call of your wishes, to allow access to the reading of the greatest number of people throughout the territory. You have also mentioned the key issue of accessibility for all – which I know is important to you and to Béatrice Descamps. The State is already contributing to improving access to the public reading network for all. We probably have to go further. I have heard your inquiry, and you can count on my commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u157	I call the credits from the Media, Book and Cultural Industries mission, listed in state B. Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2093.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u158	Since 2017, our majority has assisted the political and general news media, including the paper press, the sector most in difficulty. The Court of Auditors, however, proposed in its 2018 annual public report that a policy for the young public be conducted to change its habits of reading the press, proposing "short alerts". This appeal amendment, based on the Court's recommendations, aims to ensure that a specific appropriation is devoted to the education of young people in order to attract them to the digital press. The last programme for young people, entitled "My journal offered", had cost 15.4 million euros in three years. This is symbolically the amount we have chosen to fund an extensive plan to support the subscription of young people to the political and general news media. Since digital broadcasting is inexpensive, support for digital subscriptions would make it possible to act more effectively than the previous operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u159	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u160	The promotion of reading among young people is a top priority of the public authorities, which applies both to the press and to the book in general. Several government mechanisms have already made it easier for young people to access the press. I would remind you that online press services are eligible for the culture pass, which has nearly 760,000 users. I am also thinking of the tax credit for the first subscription to a press title, which obviously applies to young people – by definition, they are of course the most likely to subscribe to a first subscription. This tax credit applies to both the paper press and the online press. It must also be borne in mind that many people who, in view of their current activities, can easily access the press titles. Students thus often benefit from access by their educational institution to the Europresse service, which brings together a very large number of titles. For all these reasons, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u162	Same opinion. I would remind you, too, that the tax credit for subscriptions to press titles can be used by young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u163	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 1648.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u164	It concerns the Press Neighboring Rights Society (PDR), the new collective management body dedicated to the management of the press's neighbouring rights. Launched officially on 26 October, this body is chaired by Jean-Marie Cavada, whose everyone knows the unwavering commitment to the recognition and application of neighbouring rights for the benefit of publishers and news agencies. You recalled, Madam Minister, the fight for the recognition of copyright at European and national level, but the negotiations were also very laborious for the fair remuneration of publishers and news agencies. The Press Neighboring Rights Society is the world's leading collective management body for the negotiation, collection and distribution of neighbouring rights in favour of publishers and news agencies. As Mr. Jean-Marie Cavada wished, at his hearing on 16 September last, by the National Assembly's fact-finding mission, chaired by Mrs. Virginie Duby-Muller, on the application of the neighbouring right to the benefit of press agencies, publishers and professionals, this amendment would provide temporary assistance for the start-up of the OGC's work. This amendment is co-signed by several members of the Republican Group, including Virginie Duby-Muller and Brigitte Kuster, who are present here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u166	The creation of the press rights society is a particularly commendable initiative. I agree with what you said, Member. This initiative places publishers in a position to negotiate usefully with major digital aggregators. The Autorité de la concurrence's decision of 12 July 2021 carries promises for the French media; On the other hand, it seems to me that the State is not intended to finance collective management bodies – unless I am mistaken, it does not finance any of them. Peer governance logically removes CMOs from the public sphere. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u168	Same opinion. CMOs are funded through management fees. Structurally and philosophically, it would be quite counter-indicated that the Ministry of Culture would finance them in any way, unless it jeopardized their independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u169	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u170	The Socialist and Related Group supports Mrs Le Grip's amendment. We are well aware that the Ministry of Culture is not intended to provide such funding. However, in the particular context of a fierce fight against platforms and in order to achieve a successful negotiation, such an organization had to be created, and it seems to us that it is only a matter of providing it with absolutely exceptional assistance, as the department sometimes grants.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u171	They're gonna be fine. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u172	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u173	With this appeal amendment, we denounce the current system of aid to the press because it does not guarantee the pluralism essential for the functioning of a genuine democratic life. I mentioned in the rostrum the article published by Acrimed last July which analyses the list of titles and press groups that received direct and indirect support to the press from 2016 to 2019. Thus, "in 2019, more than half [...] of the 76 million euros allocated in press aid benefited six groups, belonging to eight wealthy families or businessmen". I do not spare you the reading of the names of those concerned: "Bernard Arnault, wins [...] the palm, with 16 million euros paid"; there is then "the Dassault family, with 6.4 million euros"; then the publishing company of the World, which has Xavier Niel as its main shareholder and receives 6.3 million euros; Patrick Drahi receives 5.9 million euros, and Arnaud Lagardère and Nicolas Beytout, who are comparatively small players, receive 2.1 million and 2 million respectively. In short, public aid to the press, like many other aids, goes to the richest. The adage says: money goes to money. The problem is above all that, as the article states, these aids "subsidize the distribution throughout the territory of a handful of daily newspapers held by a few billionaires". "They thus strengthen their grip on the French press, instead of supporting pluralism and diversity," Acrimed adds. However, pluralism and diversity are essential to democracy. To change this trend, we propose the creation of a new programme entitled Press Aid Reform and Media Independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u175	Concerns about the consequences of concentration in the press and, more broadly, in the media are perfectly legitimate. I am also asking myself about this. I welcome the Minister's announcement regarding the creation of an IGF-IGAC mission to propose tools to better regulate these phenomena. It is, however, difficult to accept that the current system undermines pluralism and that it is at the origin of this concentration. It is rather the reflection. Aid is granted on objective criteria, including the low amount of advertising resources or the cost of distribution. A brief overview of their overall distribution shows that L'Opinion, Libération, La Croix and L'Humanité, Ouest-France and Sud Ouest are among the most supported titles, as many editorial lines as different economic models. In the absence of a withdrawal, I will therefore give an opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u176	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 1805.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u177	It aims to reintroduce €30 million of aid adopted in the third draft amending finance law for 2020 in order to support local radio and television. The deadline for granting this aid was particularly long in the light of European requirements, since it was only paid in 2021. Local, regional, thematic and generalist, independent private television and radio stations are in difficulty, as close as possible to the territories. The independent radio union estimates that local radio revenues have decreased by 30% compared to 2019. The amendment reintroduces an emergency fund for 2022. According to the union, 90% of radio stations filed an application in 2020 for this assistance, demonstrating the importance of maintaining the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u179	As you know, the local media sector has already received significant public support. The Directorate-General for Media and Cultural Industries (DGMIC) estimates that local players are expected to experience a turnover loss of 5 to 15% in the first half of 2021 compared to 2019, compared to a loss of 30 to 50% in the first half of 2020. A return to normalcy is emerging for fiscal year 2022, which no longer justifies the mobilisation of a volume of funds such as that requested by the amendment, especially since national advertising has regained its pre-crisis level and accounts for more than 50% of the resources of commercial radio stations. On the other hand, if there were to be further deterioration and a delay in recovery, vigilance should be exercised. Therefore, as it stands, I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn. If it is retained, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u180	Mr Philippe Chassating's Amendment No 1518 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u181	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2092.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u182	I join my colleague Philippe Chassating in defending this amendment. Associative radios are absolutely essential for French people's access to culture, art and the press. It is essential to support them in order to maintain and develop dynamism in our territories, especially since they are an example of the spirit of voluntary and voluntary engagement of our fellow citizens. In this spirit, the Government and the majority have abounded in the Local Radio Expression Support Fund to take into account this need as well as the increase in the number of radio stations. The amendment aims to increase the funding of the Support for Local Radio Expression project, which finances the FSER, by EUR 3.5 million, in order to support associative radio stations weakened by the health crisis, in particular by helping them to safeguard their jobs. This amount is derived from the estimate of the cumulative needs of the structures, carried out by the National Confederation of Associative Radios.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u184	Even though the BIA for 2021 had already increased the SRF's appropriations by EUR 1.3 million in payment appropriations, the PLF for 2022 foresees a further increase of EUR 1.1 million. I wanted to do so in my report during the Spring of the evaluation, because this increase should allow the SRF to maintain a constant level of aid. If the number of eligible radios continues to increase, then it will be necessary to continue to increase the credits of the FSER. It is important to note that attention to community radio is not limited to budgetary measures. An associative radio observatory will be set up in 2023, which requires IT investments. On the other hand – even though this does not concern associative radio stations, despite a strong demand on their part – the Ministry of Culture has announced that it will accompany radio communication around the deployment of the DAB+. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u185	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u186	To complement what has just been said Mrs Special Rapporteur, I would like to point out that there are two issues to be distinguished – that was also true of Amendment No 1518, which you have rejected. There is, on the one hand, the question of the increase in the number of associative radios authorized by the CSA. It implies an increase in the allocation of the FSER, in order to avoid a fall in the average amount of automatic and selective aid. We have made this increase in the finance law for 2021 to the tune of 1.25 million euros, and we are starting again in this PLF, to the tune of 1.1 million euros. In total, these abundances increase the FSER envelope by 7%, making it largely possible to catch up with the annual 1% increase in the number of radios since 2017. [[Smile]] There is, on the other hand, the problem of dual FM and DAB+ broadcasting. As it stands, a radio broadcast on both FM and DAB+ is entitled to only one operating subsidy, while its broadcasting costs are multiplied by two. In agreement with the SNRL – Syndicat national des radios libres – and the CNRA – Confédération nationale des radios associatives – I asked my services to work there to reflect on regulatory adjustments and budgetary implications. This work, carried out in the first half of 2022, could be integrated, if necessary, into the PLF for 2023. I pass on this legacy to my successors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u187	Amendment No 2066 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u188	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 2052, 2054 and 2056, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u189	Men and women remain unevenly represented in terms of image and frequency in the media and on social networks. The Women's Foundation, in its report "Digital: Sexism in Freedom" of August 2021, demonstrated, for example, that women's representations remain stereotyped on Youtube. Unfortunately, the press is not left behind: the 2020 report of the Observatory on Equality between Women and Men in Culture and the communication stressed that women remain less numerous than men in the media, whether they are interviewers or interviewed. Their speech, particularly unaudable during the health crisis, further reduced the number of female experts interviewed. Ensuring a gender-neutral representation of women is a form of parity, and guaranteeing it between the experts interviewed was one of the missions of the former CSA, but since its power of control was limited, sexism continued not only in the modes of representation but also because of the overrepresentation of men as experts in the media. Amendment No 2052 therefore aims to underline the need for a new budgetary programme specifically designed to promote equality between women and men in the media and in the press, since it would allow for an annual review of women's representations in the media but also in the composition of guest panels, in order to sanction those who do not respect this equality. Let me turn to Amendment No 2054. Today, there is no incentive for gender diversity in the collections of local libraries, although local efforts can be observed and deserve praise. Women remain a minority in library collections, as they remain more generally in French culture – think about museums or school programs. No one can ignore the biases that contribute to the better consideration of works produced by men, which are found in the way in which library collections are composed. The argument of the impossibility of finding as many works of women as of men in certain fields or at certain times seems misleading to me because there are many works of women that deserve to be highlighted, even if they are old; As far as our times are concerned, there are enough women specialists to try, at the very least, to achieve a form of parity in the collections. For these reasons, and because libraries remain a major cultural source for many citizens of all ages, it seems appropriate to encourage a joint representation of authors present in library collections. This is the subject of this amendment. As for Amendment No 2056, it is the result of a finding: in the post-MeToo era, the release of the words of victims of gender-based and sexual violence continues in all strata of society, and unfortunately the sectors of books, media, culture and cultural industries are no exception. Many scandals with sexual or moral reach, revealed by the investigations of collectives like Let's Take the Front Page, # WeAll, Pay for your newspaper or even the MeToo of the edition have demonstrated, if necessary, a need for awareness and dialogue about psychological, gender-based and sexual violence. This amendment is based on measure 19 of the 30 measures proposed by the league of professional authors to offer a future for creation, and proposes to create a budgetary programme for annual meetings between social partners in the field of creation, as these would enable exchange and awareness-raising on issues of combating psychological, gender-based and sexual violence in order to prevent further scandals of this kind. Following the model of annual meetings organised around other themes, they would also provide an opportunity to discuss good practices on the ground, to follow up on measures taken against violence and to consider actions for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u190	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u191	With regard to Amendment No 2052, the question you raise is essential, Mrs Gaillot, and I fully associate myself with your fight. The position of women in the media was still far from sufficient, but the authorities had noted these shortcomings. In 2020, the Prime Minister entrusted a mission on women in times of crisis to our colleague here, Céline Calvez, draftsman of the opinion, whose commitment I welcome. His report made twenty-six recommendations for equality between women and men. Unless she denies me, I believe that some of them are already being implemented, such as the integration of targets for increasing the number of women on the air in the contracts for objectives and means signed with the public audiovisual sector. It will therefore be a request for withdrawal. With regard to Amendment No 2054, I would like to point out that the State is making very ambitious investments in libraries in which initiatives are born every day to promote women authors, and I have no doubt that the new president of the National Book Centre will have a major role to play and that she will be determined to defend this cause. It will therefore also be a request for withdrawal. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 2056, I note that the cultural sector and its operators have now taken full advantage of the subject of gender-based violence – number of calls, training, aid enhancements, obligations imposed on film producers to sign a charter and to ensure the presence of a reference. We must admit that we are going from afar, particularly in the film, music and media sectors, and that progress in this area requires a daily commitment in order to change attitudes and accelerate awareness. I understand this amendment as an appeal amendment. Perhaps the organisation of annual meetings against violence could be useful – such meetings already exist, and the foundations for equality between men and women in music last June are an example. But that would obviously not cost the EUR 10 million you are proposing to allocate to it. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u193	Madam Special Rapporteur, your argument was impeccable and I can only repeat it. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u194	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u195	Thank you for this detailed answer, Madam Special Rapporteur, and I too forgot to pay tribute to the work done by Céline Calvez, whom I know to be very committed to this issue. I am not going to withdraw these amendments, which have been worked on with all the stakeholders concerned and which deal with really concrete issues. Of course, I note the efforts made, the charters put in place, the observatories, the creation of references, but there is still a lot of work to be done. These may be appeals amendments, but we must continue to work, continue to hammer, continue to act, continue to give impetus, continue to tell the victims that we believe them, that we protect them, and that we are at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u196	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u197	I would of course like to say that the Socialist and Related Group is in favour of these three amendments. Parity in collections, for example, highlighted by Amendment No 2054, is an important issue. There is the goal to be achieved, but also – to use a term that the majority likes to use – the trajectory that leads to it. In other words, there will still have to be many actions, in addition to those carried out by all of us here, including Mrs Calvez of course, in order to reach the desired point. Each action is an additional stone added to the building, and I really thank Mrs Gaillot for her work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u198	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1807.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u199	I would like to thank the Minister for the accuracy of her answer regarding radios, because there was indeed one numerical question and another about DAB+, of which I repeat how much it is a technology that needs to be supported. I come to this amendment, which I mentioned in my opening statement. We propose to allocate more resources to the National Music Centre to enable it to work in a sustainable way. While everyone has recognized his work during the crisis, we believe that the increase in funds proposed by the Government will not be sufficient. I would point out that the CNM estimated revenue losses for the musical and variety show between 1.7 billion and 1.9 billion euros in turnover, which is enormous. The increase in its budget would increase the number of FTEs, both under and outside the ceiling, in order to enable it to work properly and to carry out its various tasks, bearing in mind that, with the crisis, the scope of FTEs has increased and that the new actors that integrate the NJC have complementary needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u201	In line with the trajectory defined by the 2019 law, the NJC's grant appropriations will increase by €5 million in 2022, in addition to the €30 million recovery plan assistance, Finally, in order to respond more directly to your concerns about the financial year 2022, I would point out that the NJC has a very large working capital, from the previously unconsumed appropriations, which could amount to around €140 million. Added to its allocation – €26.8 million – and to the revenue from the tax allocated – about €35 million – and to the credits from the recovery plan, this actually brings the total appropriations of the CNM for 2022 to more than €230 million. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory and it is a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u203	I would add to the Special Rapporteur's excellent argument that this proposal would also lead to a weakening of the AFP, to the detriment of the quality and independence of the information it provides in France and throughout the world, even though this is a crucial issue. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u204	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u205	The LR Group supports this amendment. It has been said and repeated that the young National Music Centre, during the health crisis, was extraordinarily reactive and very effective, and we want to send more than a political signal, a concrete signal that allows us to record in a lasting way, beyond the carry-over from 2021 to 2022 of unconsumed credits and funds – albeit not negligible – from the recovery plan, the recognition of the public power by equipping this body with resources to match the very numerous and constantly increasing missions and activities entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u206	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 1806.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u207	The amendment provides for additional resources for bookstores and publishers to compensate for the postal price of sending the book. For example – as we have already talked about in committee – independent publishers, without a distribution structure, are seeing their margin disappear in the cost of sending, which is currently 5.82 euros for a book weighing between 250 grams and 500 grams, or 30% of the price of a pound at 20 euros. It is also known that this cost is bypassed by platforms, which break shipping costs. It is of course important to continue to promote French culture, and this appeal amendment therefore proposes that, pending a single postal tariff for the sending of books and therefore the enactment of the law to strengthen the economy of the book, the State should be able to accompany the booksellers and independent publishers, possibly until the economic recovery, by providing them with funds to compensate for the costs of sending them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u209	In the context of the health crisis, the price for the postal delivery of the book was reduced for booksellers around 1 cent, a price identical to that applied by the major platforms. On the other hand, in view of their cost structure, publishers did not benefit from the scheme, although this could have been justified by the closure of the bookshops. Now that these are reopened, it seems to me less directly justified. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u210	I announce that on the vote of the credits of the mission Media, books and cultural industries, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 2065.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u211	This amendment aims to support libraries making their collections accessible to those with disabilities of all kinds. He raises a question to which you partly answered, Madam Minister, when Florence Provender asked you, but I wanted to return to this subject which, as you said, is of particular interest to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u213	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u215	This is a request for withdrawal, given the answers that you yourself have referred to, Mrs Descamps.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u216	Amendment No 2010 by Mr Michel Larive is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u217	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u218	[[Mrs Dominique David and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas loudly express their exasperation]] In the various debates we have had on this subject, we have already denounced the many freedoms that the health pass called into question, in this case, the freedom of everyone to access libraries. Moreover, the contradictory rules that govern it cast doubt on its true health. Indeed, how can it be justified that access to a bookstore where a business remains free, while access to a library or a media library is conditional on the presentation of the pass? Worse still, how can one understand that one can freely access the BNF and university libraries, but that one enters only with the said pass into municipal libraries or under the jurisdiction of other local authorities? The absurdity reaches its peak when, since 30 September, children must also present it, from 12 years old, to go to the library, they who are nevertheless locked up all day with their comrades in small and often overloaded classes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u219	Stop it, ladies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u220	[[Same movements]] Look, I'm describing realities! Stop blundering and stand up to the contradiction. These absurdities are so true that more and more communities have chosen not to control the past. We therefore call on the Government, through this amendment, to lift this obligation and to help local and regional authorities, if necessary, to equip themselves with CO sensors or air purifiers in order to protect library staff and enable everyone to access them in a fully secure manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u221	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u222	Through this appeal amendment, we want to create a media ethics board that, unlike the CSA, is a real citizen counter-power. According to a Harris Interactive poll published in July 2021, 73% of French people support this proposal. In addition, nearly 200,000 signatories to the petition launched by Jean-Luc Mélenchon in November 2017 support this proposal and share our analysis: "The media and the press play a major role in the democratic life of a country. But they also have the power to shape public debate. This power can give rise to abuses, especially as they depend on nine billionaires for 90% of them. » The media ethics board we propose to set up would be composed of representatives of media users and representatives of journalists, including the precarious and freelancers. This would provide citizens with a remedy to enforce their right to objective information. In 2019, you created a Council of Journalistic Ethics and Mediation (CDJM), composed of qualified personalities and some journalists' collectives, but many journalists refused to join, denouncing a government manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u223	That's it? Does the minister usually not provide more answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u224	You're out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u225	Is it out of the question? Everything that bothers you is out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u226	We're on the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u227	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u228	I hope that this amendment is not out of the question. We again denounce the fate reserved for artists-authors during Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium. The Racine report, commissioned by the Minister of Culture in 2019, was much awaited by the artists-authors. He was repeatedly repulsed, then buried on his way out. Thus, the creation of a national centre of artists-authors, mentioned in the PLF for 2021, simply disappeared this year. Today, artists-authors do not enjoy a status, social protection or elected representatives. The Government refused to organize professional elections to allow them to have representatives. Artists-authors simply ask for the right to social dialogue. How can one refuse to grant sick leave or maternity leave to artists-authors? The Government denied them the right to access social benefits, for which, however, they were contributing. Tribune after tribune, and despite strong mobilizations, they are still deprived of these basic rights. The parliamentary majority rejected our many proposals, in particular that of my colleague Michel Larive, aimed at establishing a common public domain, in order to combat the precariousness of professionals in the arts and culture. This amendment renews this request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u230	This amendment has a greater place in the 131 Creation programme referred to earlier. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u232	It is not, Madam Member, that I refuse to answer you, but it is that I have already responded abundantly. In addition, answers will be given within the framework of the PLFSS on the social rights of artists-authors, which I invite to agree on, because this milieu is very much divided on representativeness and statutes; However, it is not appropriate to listen to a single association or structure, but all as I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u233	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u234	Without going so far as to make a point of order, I deplore the contempt shown by some of our colleagues to the person who is speaking, when the morning had begun well. Whether we agree or not, we are here to listen to each other's words. This is a very unpleasant attitude, I wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u235	Indeed, let us try to complete our debates in serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u236	I put to the vote the credits of the mission Media, books and cultural industries.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u237	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 35 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u238	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1759.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u239	The aim is to ask the Government for a report on the creation of a tax on the online distribution of music content, the product of which would be allocated to the National Music Centre. The CNM, which has been the "common house" of the music industry since 2020, has demonstrated its usefulness during the health crisis, creating and effectively managing large-scale aid schemes. If, in the short term, the operator still has a large cash flow, which will make it possible to abound aid schemes to the sector in 2022, in the medium term there are questions regarding the operator's financing model. This report will explore avenues for sustainable NJC funding. It will also provide a working basis for thinking about the contribution of digital players to the whole sector and for engaging in a consultation phase. By mobilizing stakeholders in the sector on the subject, the report will present the scenarios for implementing the tax and will clearly set out its advantages and disadvantages. I know that the players in the sector are shared on this complex subject; I therefore believe that it is all the more important that Parliament has all the information before the next finance bill is considered in the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u240	We're having a hard time getting them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u242	I call on the Special Rapporteur to withdraw her proposal, which, although not inappropriate, is probably premature. The amendment seems to me to limit a priori the scope of thought which is otherwise indispensable and which must be as open and as collaborative as possible. I hope that this consultation will be conducted in 2022 to prepare for the return of the establishment at a cruising rate by 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u243	Mrs Céline Calvez, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u244	It will obviously be necessary to change funding and take more account of recorded music, which is essentially based on budget appropriations, while live entertainment is financed through an assigned tax. Beyond a tax on streaming subscriptions, another track, evoked by actors such as the Syndicat national de l'édition phonographique (SNEP), would be a tax based on listening materials, i.e. helmets and connected speakers. There is a need to feed the NJC, we have identified a field, that of recorded music, but the tracks must be more thorough and not limited to a single field. Finally, even when we vote on requests for reports, we find it difficult to obtain them. So I'm not sure it's the best method. We have never had the report on the public audiovisual contribution requested at the time of the PLF for 2019 and I regret it; I hope that we will be able to address the possible avenues for this CAP reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u245	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u246	I thank the Minister for her response and for her willingness to engage in as broad a dialogue as possible by 2022 and withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u247	I call the appropriations from the financial assistance account Public audio-visual advances, entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u248	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1812.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u249	We have denounced it in the general debate, and the appropriations allocated to the public audiovisual sector have been falling steadily, which, in the present situation, does not really seem reasonable. All my amendments to this article have the same objective. We do not see the trajectory in the same way as you and believe that we must continue to support the public service financially. Contracts for objectives and means involve a great deal of new tasks, missions of general interest. The public audiovisual sector deserves important resources and we do not agree at all with the intended trajectories. The four amendments are therefore intended to go back to the previous figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u251	I will reply to the amendment concerning France Télévisions. Efforts have been requested from all public audiovisual operators since 2018, with a reduction of €190 million, including €160 million supported by France Télévisions. The company's savings plan has resulted in significant productivity gains by reducing the costs of broadcasting and reducing the wage bill. Apart from Salto, the results are now balanced, which shows the financial strength of the institution. The savings movement did not take place at the expense of investment expenditure in audiovisual creation, on the contrary, the commitments have been guaranteed or even increased: the minimum investment bar has increased from 480 million euros to 500 million euros for France Télévisions in COM 2000-2022, which shows the Government's ambition in this area. Moreover, it should be noted that there has been a sharp increase in digital spending, EUR 146 million in 2020, compared to EUR 118 million in 2019. This investment is reflected in particular in the very good performance of the France Info platform, the first brand of audiovisual information media. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u253	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u254	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u255	I welcome the commitment of the State, because we have strengthened the capacity of the public audiovisual sector during the crisis. The latter also allowed France 4 to be maintained; parliamentarians, on all benches, have been very mobilised to make this happen. We know how to recognize the strength, value and necessity of public audiovisual. It is rather nice, in essence, to examine this budget on a Saturday because populists are not present to attack the public audiovisual.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u256	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u257	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u258	Since we are talking about public broadcasting, I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the segmented advertising in our ultramarine territories. France Télévisions launched last month a call for European applications in order to find a provider who will ensure the establishment, operation and supervision of a stall server on these national channels broadcast overseas. I would therefore like to alert you to the difficulties that may be encountered by our local private media, which provide quality information in our ultramarine territories. This possibility of stalling advertising for France Télévisions could seriously undermine the economic balance of ultramarine advertising markets in local media, guaranteeing media pluralism and diversity of expression. I call on the Government to exercise the utmost vigilance in this regard so as not to undermine the model of the overseas private media, whose business plan is based almost exclusively on advertising revenues from our narrow local markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u259	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u260	The presidents of the channels that we have heard have repeatedly said, albeit with great diplomacy, that these companies were at the end of the line, had done everything they could in an imposed trajectory and no longer saw how they could continue. I want to hear that the trajectory is great, but if we rely on what we've been told, it's not quite the case. As for the downsizing, I do not see how it would have to be welcomed: it may concern people who arrive at the end of the journey, who will no longer have to work and who will have to look elsewhere. It's not great in itself: it's just about saving money. The question we are asking is whether the efforts to be made in terms of quality, diversity and plurality are compatible with the desire to continue to save money.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u261	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u262	The subject was already raised in June as part of the audiovisual reform. We had alerted you about the possibility of opening segmented advertising in the overseas territories. The discussions we had enabled us to obtain guarantees in the light of the particular financial balances in the Overseas Territories. At the beginning of the month, however, a call for tenders was launched by France Télévisions to study the implementation of segmented advertising. Let me warn you: this undermines the audiovisual microcosm of the overseas territories. This is a real challenge that I obviously relate to this amendment: when the trajectory is towards optimisation of means, the public service must seek new room for manoeuvre, in particular through the development of advertising revenues. The option will obviously be put on the table overseas, at the risk of causing a real imbalance in the advertising market in our territories. Small, ultramarine companies do not have the means to fight against groups of this size.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u263	I therefore fully agree with Mr Stéphane Claireaux's remarks. Madam Minister, I ask you to be very careful: a thousand jobs are at stake, as is the pluralism of expressions, which absolutely must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u264	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u265	I had already had the opportunity to do so a few weeks ago in the rostrum, at the time of the final adoption of the audiovisual law defended by the Minister, but I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the group The Republicans are, with determination and conviction, firmly committed to the public audiovisual sector. It is important to recall this, at a time when some are advocating to put an end to it and privatize all channels: the political family of the Republican Right has always awarded a lot of prizes to the public audiovisual industry, considering that it has a responsibility and a role to play in the fields of culture, education and information. This does not, of course, prevent a critical look at certain aspects – recently, this was the case, in particular, with regard to the financial trajectory – or from expressing some concerns about respect for political pluralism. In any event, we strongly reaffirm our commitment to the French public audiovisual industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u266	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u267	I would like to inform the various speakers that nothing has been decided on the possibility of dropping out. In any case, this will require a decision by the board of directors, in which the State is obviously represented. A meeting on this subject is scheduled next week with my services in order to work on it. Thank you for calling my vigilance on this point; I can tell you that it is already total.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u268	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 2007.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u269	Indeed, there are no populists here, possibly a few Polemists as well as ladies whom, probably, hunger makes unpleasant.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u270	You're the one who's unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u271	We are talking about an important subject. The austerity cure continues this year – the figures I have mentioned at the rostrum testify to this – while the public audiovisual industry faced additional costs during the covid epidemic -19. That said, as I am listening to you, I understood that you had strengthened its resources during this period; That's good. However, advertising revenues have also fallen. I allow myself a parenthesis: as a citizen who listens to a lot of public audiovisual programmes, I regret that there is now too much publicity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u272	As the public audiovisual sector is weakened, that is why we are defending an appeal amendment to create a new budget line in favour of a public audiovisual defence plan. Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are vigilant; We will follow all this closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u273	From the appropriations of the financial assistance account Advances to the public audiovisual sector, I am seized by the group La République en marche of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1760.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u274	The aim of this appeal amendment is to shift 2% of the resources of each of the public audiovisual companies towards synergy and cooperation projects. It will allow me – I hope – to obtain clarification on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u275	As has been recalled, often under the impetus of the public authorities but also because of the public audiovisual companies themselves, projects have been put in place in recent years: the continuous information chain France Info; Culture Prime – a culture-based social media common to the six public audiovisual societies; Lumni, who is at the service of education, students, students, but also teachers, and whose responsiveness and effectiveness we were able to measure when the health crisis of the covid-19 occurred. These projects are encouraging and should call for others. The development of editorial and purchasing group synergies was also one of the objectives of the 2020-2022 target and means contracts. The purpose of the amendment is to be able to assess the proportion of these projects in relation to the overall activity of public audiovisual companies and the weight of the investments and the human and material resources that are mobilised. Do these projects account for 0.1% of activities or, rather, 30%? Not only will it be necessary to measure what is being invested in it, but also the value that can be derived from it. What is the level of cooperation between the different entities and how do we assess and encourage it? Public audiovisual companies need to be able to cooperate more.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u277	As you said, the search for synergies is at the heart of the public audiovisual operators' COM 2020-2022. This is true from an editorial point of view, with the development of common digital platforms – you talked about Culture Prime, Lumni or the France Info channel; I will add the common mornings of France Bleu and France 3 which are also an important example. But this search for synergies also concerns support functions: objective of purchasing groups, training policy coordinated with INA, etc. A holding company was not created as had been envisaged, but this does not prevent a strengthening of the cooperation between the actors, which should be stressed. This appeal amendment was not considered by the Finance Committee; I'll ask you to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u278	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u279	The same request for withdrawal: setting the envelope at 2% of each entity's public resources is not documented. One could imagine that each company would be punctured in a different way depending on its mission and budget. In addition, it raises many operational questions: who decides how to use it? Under what procedure? This could be rather synonymous with heaviness. This cooperation is absolutely essential, but it is better to follow the logic of the COMs. I understand that this was an appeal amendment; For my part, I appeal to his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u280	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u281	I have asked the public audiovisual companies, and I am surprised that it is not possible to assess what the investments and the human or material resources involved in these co-operations represent. I therefore call for an assessment of the efforts made for synergies and cooperation; I salute them, but I would like to see more objectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u282	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 1811, 1809 and 1810, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u283	I have already spoken a lot about this. I will therefore insist and repeat that it is not reasonable to continue to call for cost-effective efforts on the public audiovisual sector, at a time when there is still a bulwark against misinformation of all kinds and when it is being attacked – this has already been said. Again, we want to restore the credits of the entire public audiovisual sector to the level of the BIA by 2021. At this stage, we need strong signs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u284	I put to the vote the appropriations of the financial assistance account Advances to the public audiovisual sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u285	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 28 [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Against 3 We completed the review of the Media, Book and Cultural Industries Mission and the Public Audiovisual Advances Financial Competition Account. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-06-O1051.u286	Next sitting, Monday, 8 November, at 9 a.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the 2022 finance bill: review of the appropriations of the missions Economy and Investments of the future, the trust account International Monetary Agreements and the financial assistance account Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations; of the mission Financial commitments of the State, of the trust accounts Participation of France in the deleveraging of Greece and of the financial contributions of the State and of the financial assistance account Advances to various government services or bodies managing public services. The meeting is adjourned.
