ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u1	I should like to inform you that at the end of this meeting, a ceremony in memory of the civilian and military victims of the Algerian war and the fighting in Tunisia and Morocco will take place in the Four-Columns Hall. I invite those who wish to participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u2	The next item is the debate on the bill to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention (No. 3948, 3973).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u3	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u4	A great democracy is also measured in the state of its prisons. I cannot resolve to the idea that France, the homeland of human rights, is regularly condemned for the indignity of its detentions. The abolitionists of the prison do not disappoint, but the penalty of imprisonment is, I repeat, necessary for the rule of law and for the Republic. It cannot, of course, be the only judicial response, as some populist politicians support. Prison is the only way to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, so that dangerous offenders can be excluded. I want to talk about terrorists, those who have committed acts of assault on people, organized crime, large-scale trafficking. However, the deprivation of liberty must never correspond to a deprivation of dignity: it is a question of humanity. For low-intensity delinquency, incarceration is not the solution. Short sentences carried out on mattresses on the ground, in narrow cells, where several prisoners are sometimes buried in an unbearable proximity, are desocializing and criminogenic. Let's be clear: the pain must make sense. First, it must not be a vector of recidivism. Since arriving at the head of the Ministry of Justice, I have been working to improve both the conditions of detention of prisoners and the quality of work of prison staff. I solemnly wish, before your assembly, to pay tribute to the courage and professionalism of the heads of institutions, officers, officers, overseers, insertion staff, who, despite the complexity of their mission, which has increased during this period of health crisis, make our prisons work, thus making an indispensable contribution to the work of justice. The priority, in order to make progress, is to draw all the consequences of the conviction of the French State by the European Court of Human Rights – ECHR – on 30 January 2020, for its conditions of detention in six detention centres and prisons. The answer must be up to the stakes. To this end, we have proposed an action plan, which will be finalised at the end of June and discussed in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe next September. In particular, it is essential to continue the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice of 24 March 2019, which has re-founded the scale of sentences. Priority must be given to accompanying the cultural revolution which it presupposes: leaving prison at all; limit the imposition of short-term imprisonments, which, I repeat, are desocializing penalties; encourage the use of alternatives to imprisonment for the less serious offences, since it is known that the more accompanied and supervised the release from prison, the more the person has housing, work, training, a social worker who follows him/her, and the more the risk of new steps to the act decreases. We need to put in place a policy of more proactive prison regulation: this is the discourse that I hold very regularly with all the heads of courts and tribunals, so that they can take on with voluntarism the implementation of the new law, actively explore the margins of progress that exist and thus quickly adapt their criminal policy to each of their jurisdictions. There has been a significant increase in ab initio sentencing from 3% to 11% in less than a year, which is a positive signal, although approximately forty illegal sentences of less than one month are still being handed down each month. Alternatives to detention must be developed as soon as proceedings are dealt with by prosecutors, who must use the power of their own, of the choice of prosecution, because for incivilities and petty crimes that literally rot the lives of our fellow citizens, immediate, effective and constructive responses are needed in order to guarantee the educational strength of justice. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, the improvement of the conditions of detention, which we are discussing, also requires the construction of additional prison places, not to jail more, but to incarcerate better, under more dignified conditions. We will build 15,000 of them, of which 7,000 are already in the process of being built, which will, in particular, make it possible to close unhealthy or aging establishments and to create new prison places. I will shortly announce the sites selected for the 8000 additional places, which are scheduled to be delivered by 2027. Finally, and of course, we must take into account the requirements of our national courts, including the two judgments of the Criminal Chamber of the Court of Cassation of 8 July 2020, and in particular the decision of the Constitutional Council of 2 October 2020 which brings us together today. By this decision, the High Court asked the legislator to guarantee detainees in pretrial detention the possibility of bringing the matter before the judge on account of unworthy conditions of detention. As you know, we have therefore worked hard to devise, in response, an effective, coherent and effective speech which I believe will be perfectly in line with our law. In view of the issues at stake, I wanted to submit this draft to the Council of State, which approved it at the beginning of December. However, the parliamentary procedure did not allow this amendment to be incorporated, which was forwarded to the two committees seized of the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office then under discussion. That is why, in view of the deadlines set by the Constitutional Council, this bill is of particular importance: it is time, finally, to restore conditions of detention in our country that we do not have to blush, and finally to allow an effective remedy, in order to put an end to the revolting situations that we all know. I would also like to thank the Senate Law Commission for its initiative. But I should like to thank in particular your Committee on Laws, in particular its chairman, Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, who, I know, has, since the beginning of the legislature, had a special involvement on these issues, and who I know can find with me during the next prison reforms. This commitment, in close connection with the study group on prisons and prison conditions, whose president is none other than the rapporteur of the text, has allowed a remarkable analysis to be done in the light of our discussions today. I would therefore like to welcome the involvement of Member Caroline Abadie and the quality of her constructive proposals, which will enable you to improve the arrangements this morning. We need to be precise. The bill creates a new article 803-8 in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which lays down the principle of an effective remedy, and recalls its existence in the second paragraph of article 144-1 of the same Code, in the case of accused persons, and in article 707 for convicted persons. If the person is in pre-trial detention, the court competent to decide on the application will be the judge of freedoms and detention. If the person is serving his or her sentence, the application shall be subject to the decision of the sentencing judge. The judge so seized may, if necessary, have the detainee's detailed allegations verified, with the text incorporating the formulations of the criminal division of the Court of Cassation. If he considers the request justified, he will then set the time limit within which the prison administration will have to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention, if necessary by transferring the person to another prison. If the unworthy conditions persist at the end of this period, the judge may order a transfer himself, or, for the defendants, the release of the person, if necessary under security. In the case of convicted persons, he or she may release him or her under sentence, if the person is eligible for such a measure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is the strength of this new mechanism to be both clear, legible and effective, in order to meet the constitutional requirements, which are inseparable from the rule of law. This new system also meets the requirements of humanity and dignity, which must prevail over the execution of any custodial sentence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we can collectively be proud to take a major step forward in improving conditions of detention today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u5	Mrs Caroline Abadie, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u6	We are considering a bill, passed only 11 days ago by the Senate, which is intended to address a failure of our law, pointed out by three jurisdictional decisions. As you pointed out, Mr Minister, the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council have made the same observation. Our right, as it stands, does not guarantee an effective remedy allowing detained persons to denounce any unworthy conditions of detention, in order to put an end to them. The purpose of this bill is therefore to create such a remedy, open to all persons detained – accused or convicted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u7	Even though we cannot be happy that we have been taken in default on such a fundamental subject, I believe that we can nevertheless stress the reactivity of the Government and the legislator, who have quickly and effectively incorporated this new procedure into our law. Before coming to its content, I would like to point out that the bill, if it is to be understood and read from the overall point of view of prison policy, is in no way intended to become a tool for prison regulation. As we know, we have regularly referred to it in our work of the Law Commission, and unfortunately we have seen during our visits to prisons: prison overcrowding has become chronic in our prison system, especially in the detention centres which accommodate the accused and those sentenced to short sentences. However, it is often situations of overcrowding that lead to conditions of detention that are contrary to the dignity of the human person. Indeed, overpopulation has disastrous consequences on the quality of detention: it increases promiscuity, transforms individual cells into dormitories, increases the loss of privacy, accelerates the degradation of premises and sometimes leads to significant hygiene and sanitation deficiencies. Significant efforts have been made in recent years to address this problem and to return to an appropriate and rights-sensitive situation. On the one hand, we are acting on prison conditions. As you said, Minister, as a result of an unprecedented increase since 2017, the prison administration's budget makes improving the prison park a priority. The real estate program is growing in power and the figures you announced this morning show that they are creating places. Additional budgetary resources are also available to improve the maintenance of the existing park. The budget for the maintenance of our establishments is thus €110 million for 2021. On the other hand, we are also acting to reduce the number of detainees and thereby reduce the pressure on our prison system. Let me remind you: we passed the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice, which organizes the reform of the scale of sentences and lays down the principle of prohibition of prison sentences of less than one month, as well as the ab initio arrangement of sentences of between one and six months' imprisonment. These measures are in the right direction, but we must now no doubt reaffirm our commitment to the development of alternatives to detention and to the increased ownership of these devices by the judiciary, because I am convinced that this is one of the keys to reducing prison overcrowding and ensuring the best possible conditions of detention for our detainees. Despite these efforts, the situation remains worrying in many prisons. We must therefore resolutely continue our efforts to remedy this situation. This is a crucial objective, which is not only at the heart of our concerns as legislators, but also at the heart of the penal and prison policies implemented by the Government. However, it is neither the object nor the objective of the bill, which deals with a specific and specific subject: the creation of a new remedy. Of course, it is linked to unworthy conditions of detention, but it is neither intended to create a door for large-scale action in this area, nor to create a new way of release for prisoners. So, what's this text doing? It creates a new remedy open to all detained persons in order to refer to the judge detention conditions contrary to respect for the dignity of the human person. It therefore specifies the procedure for this new remedy, organised in three main stages: first, the filing of an application whose admissibility the judge assesses; Then, if the application is admissible, the judge shall cause checks to be carried out and shall receive the observations of the prison administration, after which, in the light of those elements, he shall decide on the merits of the application and, where appropriate, inform the prison administration of the conditions of detention which he considers to be unworthy and shall set a time limit for its termination; Finally, there is a third stage which will only be possible: if the prison administration fails to resolve the problem within the time limit, the judge himself takes a decision to remedy the situation. I would remind you that his decision may, depending on the circumstances, be of three kinds: transfer, release or sentencing. It is further specified that the judge's decision may be appealed either to the President of the Investigation Chamber or to the President of the Enforcement Chamber. Our honourable senators have added, in a relevant way, that this appeal may also relate to the decision on admissibility of the motion. This is an important subject for me, which is at the root of my desire to amend this text today in open session. Appeal and double jurisdiction are essential principles of judicial procedure and constitute a guarantee of fairness for litigants, who must be able to challenge a court decision before a new court. In the case of this bill, the appeal is an important part of the mechanism provided for, as it is an essential element of the effectiveness of this new remedy. However, while the principle of appeal is enshrined in paragraph 15 of the text, the time limits applicable to it are not specified, which I find problematic. As it stands, the text simply states that the judge must decide on appeal within 15 days in the event that an appeal from the Public Prosecutor's Office is filed within 24 hours of the judge's decision. It is of course relevant: since this appeal from the Public Prosecutor's Office is suspensive, it is important that a decision be rendered promptly. However, it seems to me necessary that the other appeal periods should also be explicitly provided for in this text, especially since it involves two appeal judges, the Trial Chamber and the Enforcement Chamber, who are not entirely subject to the same rules of ordinary law. Beyond this point concerning the appeal, I will present some drafting amendments and clarification amendments aimed at improving the readability – and I hope so – of the proposed device. In particular, several of them tend to include deadlines within the stages that are precisely described in the single article of the bill. During my hearings, I was able to see that the deadlines were little or no understood by my interlocutors, and even by all the magistrates I met. I therefore believe it is important to improve this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you, like me, will have the pride to vote on this bill, the general economy of which seems to me to be relevant and balanced, so that, within a very short period of time and in a definitive way, we can include in our law a new remedy, which constitutes a new right for persons detained in France, a country of human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u8	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u9	Detention is a custodial sentence and must only be that. An inmate is not condemned to sleep on the ground, to live in intolerable promiscuity, to suffer the absence of light, electricity sometimes, or to be more exposed than others to covid-19 in these pandemic times. This is true a priori and a fortiori when it comes to mere defendants. As we know, the conditions of detention in our prisons are deplorable. Prison overcrowding is the primary cause. In addition, the buildings are old-fashioned, the cells are unsafe, the lack of care and, sometimes, the lack of activity creating harmful boredom. To illustrate my point, and on behalf of my colleague Philippe Dunoyer, I would like to refer to the Nouméa prison in New Caledonia. After launching the alert for the first time in 2011, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty – CGLPL – renewed its recommendations in 2019 to end the maintenance of an intolerable status quo. The Council of State did the same in its decision of October 2020, in which it described serious hygiene and health deficiencies, mattresses on the ground and marine containers converted into cells. As is the case throughout New Caledonia, there is an urgent need to address these particularly degraded conditions in New Caledonia, and more generally in the overseas territories. I recall that the first individual confinement law, which dates back to 1875, has almost never been implemented. We find ourselves in a paradoxical situation, in which most of the justice budget is allocated to prison policy, without any positive developments in the long term. The necessary renovation of the prison park is still pending, as is the construction of new places. These findings are – alas – not new. Successive comptrollers-general continue to regret that no solution is being found, and unfortunately France continues to be regularly condemned by international bodies. In this context, and following the decision of the Constitutional Council of 2 October 2020, creating a judicial remedy for prisoners who consider themselves incarcerated under unworthy conditions can only be a step forward. However, as I said in committee, we are very sceptical about its effectiveness. First of all, the device relies almost exclusively on transfer. Is moving from an overcrowded facility to another overcrowded facility the guarantee of more dignified conditions of detention? We can doubt that. That is why we want it to be enshrined in the law that the transfer must indeed bring about an improvement in the conditions of detention. We then doubt the capacity of the prison administration to respond effectively to these remedies. Indeed, the system rests largely on its shoulders, while it is very destitute: it suffers from a lack of resources resulting in the total absence of a lever of action to improve the conditions of detention on a daily basis. From reform to reform, the tasks of the judiciary are accumulating. The judge of liberty and detention suffers particularly from this. Could the Government inform us about the content of the decree, including the modalities of referral? Indeed, we fear that administrative burdens may undermine the real possibility for some detainees to resort to the new system. On this point, we endorse the proposal of the National Bar Council – CNB – to refer a case by any means. Ultimately, this text does not in itself provide a real solution to the indignity of conditions of detention. Its single article proposes a judicial remedy: it is obviously a matter of legal compliance with the Constitutional Council's decision. For this reason, we find the title of the bill to be presumptuous and somewhat unsuited to the actual content of the text. A certainty must emerge from its examination: we must be more ambitious and effectively stop the indignity of living conditions in our prisons. Treating prisoners in an inhuman and degrading manner is unacceptable not only for themselves, but also for society as a whole, since these conditions are also a factor of rejection, misunderstanding of punishment, potential recidivism and radicalization. I would like to stress that decent conditions of detention are not exclusive to the prison rigour necessary for the execution of the sentence. The IDU and independent group will vote for the text, because it has the merit of opening a judicial path to the denunciation of the state of living in our prisons. Of course, it is a matter of not making it an instrument of prison policy or of mass liberation. We hope that it can effectively improve the situation of a number of detainees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u10	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u11	The living conditions of detainees are unworthy of our country. As is well known, France has been sentenced on 19 occasions by the European Court of Human Rights for conditions of detention in violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. One of the main causes of this situation is overcrowding in prisons. France is one of the most numerous European states. The prison occupancy rate now stands at 105 per cent, and in remand prisons which accommodate persons in pre-trial detention or whose sentence is less than two years, it rises to 122 per cent. I recall that the health situation led to large releases of prisoners and that these figures were much higher before the crisis, since they were respectively 116 per cent and 138 per cent at the beginning of 2020, i.e. approximately 70000 detainees for a total of 61000 operational places. The principle of placement in individual cells has been enshrined in the law since 1875. Yet it has never materialized. The individual confinement rate is only 40%. The resulting great promiscuity of detention renders it invivable and inhumane. It also increases tensions and insecurity in prisons, and complicates the work of staff. The purpose of the bill is to enable detainees who consider themselves victims of particularly inhuman conditions of detention to have an effective right of appeal. At present, detainees can only appeal to the interim judge, not to the judicial judge. This situation was denounced by the ECHR, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council, which asked the legislator to act in its decision of 2 October last in response to a QPC – a priority issue of constitutionality. Thus, the text implements the request made by the Constitutional Council: detainees will now be able to apply to the judicial judge, if they consider that they are victims of unworthy conditions of detention, and the latter will be able to pronounce a release of the detainee under certain conditions, if conditions of detention are deemed to be contrary to human dignity. We welcome this improvement in the right of detainees to recourse in a very favourable way, and the Libertés et territoires Group will support this text. However, we would like to alert you on a few points. We consider the transfer decision to be subject to a thorough review of the inmate's family situation. It is not conceivable that an inmate should be removed from his family. This problem is very important to us: many prisoners are forced to live away from their families, from their land, causing emotional and material difficulties that could be avoided. However, social and family ties are crucial for the reintegration into society of convicted persons. As you know, Minister, we have long called for the return of detainees, particularly in Corsica, to their region of origin, in simple but strict application of the law. Will France also have to be condemned again by the European Court of Human Rights to remind the State of reason and legality? We expect – Corsica is waiting – on your part, Minister, and on your services the adoption of just, legal, immediate acts of rapprochement, since all the conditions are met. Furthermore, the proposed law requires that the allegations mentioned in the application filed by the detained person be detailed, personal and current. This personal character is too reducing. Thus, if the bill is passed as it stands, an applicant will not be able to rely on being detained in an overcrowded facility, he or she will have to explain precisely how this overpopulation affects him or her personally. However, unworthy conditions of detention were not an individual problem affecting some detainees, but an overall problem affecting them all. It would be preferable to replace personal character with general character. Finally, we would like to stress the need to thoroughly reform our penal system in order to avoid these problems of overcrowding. Alternative penalties should be developed in a much more massive manner. Many studies have highlighted this: prison produces offenders and systematic incarceration leads to nothing; It must be reserved for the most dangerous offenders. Alternative educational penalties, which have the advantage of being more effective in preventing recidivism, should be given priority as soon as possible. I repeat: we will support this bill, so that it can quickly produce its beneficial effects for incarcerated people. Nevertheless, it's a waste of time! Fortunately, the European Court of Human Rights is here to move the lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u12	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u13	As just pointed out by the previous speaker, it was time – several jurisdictions have reminded us of the order – to develop this minimum procedure allowing the detainee to assert the unworthy nature of his conditions of detention, so that it could be terminated as soon as possible. I will not take stock of the situation in prisons: we discussed it at length during the review of the law of 23 May 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for the justice system. The only solution proposed was the creation of prisons, which had to deal with the situation, by allowing the closure of old establishments. Moreover, this was not the case since every time institutions were built, it was more to fill them with new inmates than to empty existing ones. On this point, history has never contradicted us. While the purpose of this law was to reduce the number of people incarcerated – which is very good and I share it since there are too many people incarcerated for short sentences, as the minister pointed out – we are reduced to urging magistrates to be less incarcerated, since the law did not lead to a gradual reduction in short sentences. We always go back to the same discussion: since overcrowding in prison is the main cause of deterioration of living conditions in prison, how can we manage to reduce the number of people in prison? We must amend the Penal Code to review the scale of penalties and, in order to prevent prison sentences from being imposed, to create genuine probation sentences for persons who have committed certain offences. Until we do, the justice system will continue to produce the same effects, that is, to incarcerate more and more people. While the context of the covid-19 has led to very rapid releases of prisoners, the institutions welcome new ones, even if they fill less quickly, fortunately. Today, we have exceeded the 120 per cent occupancy rate for remand homes, knowing that, in general, we have never been down below 100 per cent. I come to the substance of the text which requires my full attention and which I agree at this stage, even if many problems need to be deepened. By creating this remedy, we are introducing a procedure that is the very subject of the text, while fearing that all detainees will use it to challenge the unworthy conditions of their detention – we talked about it in committee. Indeed, such remedies would be too complicated to investigate, in particular because of the insufficient number of judges. Consequently, conditions have been added as many filters, leading to the question of how this remedy can ultimately be activated. The prison administration is thus placed in a somewhat embarrassing situation, since it is, at some point, both a judge and a party. If the judicial judge considers that the application of the person detained under unworthy conditions is well founded, he or she may request the prison administration to provide him or her with evidence to remedy the situation. However, since the judicial judge cannot use his power of injunction, it is up to the prison administration to find a solution to a daily problem which it is already unable to resolve in normal times. In fact, do not consider that the prison administration, whether it be the prison directors or the supervisory staff, allows a person to live in conditions unworthy of pleasure. They do what they can with the means of the edge – buildings, equipment, equipment. That is why requiring them to solve a problem they face on a daily basis is not the right solution. With regard to unworthy conditions of detention, I, like many speakers, have referred to prison overcrowding, which is a central problem. But sticking to the discussion of this subject would lead us to miss out on the essential: the sense of grief. However, not having access to educational activities, rehabilitation – job search with Pôle emploi – training and work that we would like to see offered to prisoners, is also a form of indignity. In fact, the time spent in a cell, which is essentially suffered, is very important in jails in France. It is not by removing automatic sentencing reductions that we will suddenly create extraordinary motivation for inmates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u14	That's exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u15	It is, once again, a question of means. If we want to put an end to these unworthy conditions, we must not build prison places but improve those that exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u16	You're criticizing the bill, when you haven't seen it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u17	We're doing politics, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u18	Good answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u19	We're not here for the little ovens!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u20	If doing politics is that, what do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u21	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u22	Doing politics doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u23	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u24	"A shame for the Republic! It was in these terms that the state of the Saint-Denis de la Réunion prison was qualified during a visit by a parliamentary delegation in September 1999. Given the seriousness of the situation, the National Assembly, followed by the Senate, unanimously adopted the establishment of a commission of inquiry on prisons, in order to begin a reflection on our prison system. At the end of several months of work, the finding was final. The reports revealed a calamitous prison universe and denounced a "humiliation for the Republic". The two parliamentary committees revealed the situation of overcrowding in prisons and conditions of detention in violation of dignity in many of the institutions visited. Of course, the Domenjod prison has replaced the Juliette-Dodu, but since the 2000 finding, too little has changed. The unsanitary, the filthy, the lack of hygiene, the overpopulation, the unworthy living conditions always correspond to the general state of French prisons. As of 1 January 2021, there were 62673 detainees in French prisons. While at the beginning of the health crisis, an unprecedented decrease in incarcerations gave rise to the hope that France could end the overpopulation that gangrene its prisons, it was only for a short period of time, the justice system returning very quickly to its prison reflexes. Prisons now house nearly 4000 more prisoners than six months ago. International and national condemnations have been relentlessly followed for more than 20 years. France is one of the European states whose prisons are most overcrowded and whose prison population continues to grow. France's recurrent convictions for "human and degrading conditions of detention" highlight a prison ambition reduced to the custody of detainees at the expense of a genuine reflection on the meaning of the sentence. The recent landmark decision of the European Court of Human Rights on 30 January 2020 calls for profound changes. The Court held that the overcrowding of French prisons was a matter of structural problems and called for the adoption of general measures to ensure that detainees were held in conditions consistent with human dignity, in particular by "the definitive resorption of prison overcrowding". It also called on France to establish a preventive and effective remedy allowing detained persons to stop "full and immediate" these serious violations of their fundamental rights. Following that conviction, the Constitutional Council had granted until 1 March to amend the law. We regret that this deadline has not been met. The Government's inertia was not acceptable when fundamental rights were at stake. On the device itself, we can only welcome the creation of this new remedy, which allows any detainee complaining of unworthy conditions of detention to bring the matter before the judicial judge for an end, including by ordering his release. We therefore support this text. However, together with the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation, it should be stressed that the mechanism provided for cannot be regarded as "sufficient to safeguard the rights of detained persons". The solution of allowing the prison administration the possibility of transferring detainees in order to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention "risks of discouraging the recourse of prisoners who prefer to remain incarcerated near their families who come to visit them at the parlor", according to the International Prison Observatory – OIP. Moreover, this judicial remedy alone will not address the problem of poor conditions of detention. Prison overcrowding, an endemic problem in French prisons, is pointed out as one of the main reasons for the deplorable living conditions in prison. Their improvement requires a remedy to this structural phenomenon. However, the creation of new prison places will not solve this problem. The IPO regularly highlights the ineffectiveness of the increase in prison stock to respond to overcrowding. While nearly 30,000 prison places have been built over the past 25 years, resulting in a 60 per cent increase in the prison stock, these have had no effect on overcrowding, except to increase it further. While the Government has pledged to create 7,000 places by 2022 and to launch operations for the opening of 8,000 additional places by 2027, remember that the Head of State himself recognized in March 2018, in a speech to the National School of Prison Administration: "Continue as we do by constantly increasing the number of prison places. This vision exists but it makes a political, social and moral problem a real estate problem, which is always convenient but does not solve it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u25	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u26	We know this: for years, French prisons have not been able to offer sufficiently dignified and acceptable conditions of detention for all persons detained, mostly because of the overcrowded prison population, which is poorly chronically French. Already in 1990 the occupancy rate of prisons was 124 per cent. No one has been able to solve this problem ever since. In 2017, this overcrowding was still close to 117%. Like many of us here, I do not believe that prison is always the most appropriate solution to sanction, on the contrary. Where this is the case, the sentence must be useful and dignified conditions of detention must be guaranteed, above all by humanity. The prison is already a difficult enough trial to ensure that it is not, moreover, humiliating. If not, how can we improve the reintegration of prisoners upon their release and avoid the risk of recidivism? In order to make our criminal policy more effective, we must not incarcerate ever more, but rather incarcerate better.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u28	Since 2017, we have taken steps in this direction: a considerable increase in the budget of the judiciary and the prison administration; large recruitment of prison staff; review of the scale of sentences, including the abolition of one-month prison sentences and the desire to favour alternative sanctions, such as community service and the electronic bracelet for the shortest sentences. Following the supervised release of prisoners during the health crisis, the occupancy rate of prisons fell to 103 per cent on 1 January 2021. The construction of additional prison places, of which 7000 are expected to be delivered soon, will finally allow this rate to be below 100 per cent. At the same time, we have also made provisions on the rights of detained persons, particularly with regard to civil rights. Last week, we voted for new ways to make effective the right to vote of those detained in the presidential election, which was almost never exercised. But this is obviously not enough. An inmate who suffers from unworthy conditions of detention is a failure of our society, a breach of our fundamental principles. Past and recent decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Council remind us of this. The proposed law provides for a remedy allowing any detained person to apply to a judicial judge for an end to unworthy conditions of detention. These are the liberty and detention judge, if the person is in custody, and the sentence enforcement judge, if the person has already been convicted and is serving the sentence. The establishment of such a legal remedy was essential for the detainee to be able to assert his or her rights. It was a void in our right that we came to fill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is broad consensus on this bill. It is the result of a joint work carried out by the keeper of the seals, the Senate and the National Assembly: all the better, it was urgent to legislate on this matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u29	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u30	Sentenced to indemnification, found guilty of detention in unworthy conditions, we have an obligation to bring ourselves into conformity and to offer recourse to prisoners who consider that the conditions of their detention are unworthy. But our action must not stop there. Guaranteeing a remedy is good; Make sure it's useless, obviously it's better! [[Mr. Keeper of the Seals approves]] This text must make us understand, if not already done, how urgent it is to build new prison places. Of course, we owe it to the detainees themselves, but also to those who work in the prison administration. Prison overcrowding is a source of tension, unsanitaryness and health risks, especially during this pandemic period. These places, we owe them to all: it is our honour to achieve them as soon as possible. And our action must go much further. The remedy that we are going to endorse today risks saturating the courts because, given the numbers of prison occupancy, it could be exercised not all prisoners. Let us not forget that, in its decision of 30 January 2020, the European Court of Human Rights ordered France to compensate thirty-two prisoners in six different institutions, considering that their unworthy conditions of detention constituted ill-treatment within the meaning of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, the Court recommended that the French State take measures to address overcrowding in prisons. If we need a right of appeal, then we also need, and above all, concrete measures to reduce prison congestion. The numbers are here. As of 1 January 2021, 21664 persons were detained in institutions with an occupancy rate of more than 120%. In order to comply with the requirement to offer a remedy, on 11 February 2021 the Chairman of the Senate's Law Commission, Mr. François -Noël Buffet, tabled a bill to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention, on which the Government initiated the expedited procedure. This text, of course, we will vote on it. But in order for this remedy not to be synonymous with the congestion of the courts, it is imperative to take the evil to the root. In 20 years, the number of prisoners has almost doubled. Prison overcrowding is a reality; It is the chronic evil of French prisons. The 2018-2022 Programming and Justice Reform Act, enacted in 2019, provides for the creation of 15,000 places and new types of institutions. Minister, they must be realized quickly! We will all vote on this bill by mutual consent. And as always in this area, the motivations of each will be different. In any event, the Group of the Republicans, responding to France's international commitments and our constitutional obligations, will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u31	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u32	The prison entered the political field a little over twenty years ago, with the publication of a book by Véronique Vasseur, Chief Physician at the Health Prison. It referred to an old, filthy, almost middle-aged prison: a city in the city where foreigners from all countries, petty criminals, great terrorists, undocumented and VIP detainees are living together. This book was an electroshock. The company could no longer claim not to know. The press accompanied the highlighting of these unworthy conditions of detention and denounced the relative indifference in which the situation in French prisons was deteriorating, thus promoting recidivism. Very quickly, this issue became a parliamentary concern. It was time because, as Fiodor Dostoevski wrote: "The degree of civilization of a society can be measured by visiting its prisons. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u34	What about 20 years later? Many justice budgets have been voted, including programmes for the construction of prisons. For 2021, as every year, the appropriations earmarked for the prison administration are the highest of the "Justice" mission, with a budget of €3.3 billion, an increase of 9%. These funds will continue the construction of prisons, improve prison security and recruit 1200 prison guards, who are also victims of overcrowding. However, Minister, carrying out these real estate programs will sometimes require overcoming strong local oppositions, as is the case in the Val-d'Oise department. While the prefect presented, less than ten days ago, the project to build a 700-seat prison, there was a strong opposition from elected representatives of the majority. There is therefore an edifying paradox when, on the one hand, the French demand a more severe justice and, on the other hand, they refuse to set up a prison in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u35	Until tonight?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u36	Let us be realistic, we will not be able to resolve in five years the issue of prison overcrowding, which has long been a political sea serpent. While it is essential to build institutions to relieve saturated jails, we know that the issue of prison overcrowding is not just a real estate issue. It is also linked to the increase in the criminal population. The law of 23 March 2019 on 2018-2022 programming and justice reform enriches and streamlines the criminal justice system and reviews the scale of sentences in order to respond to the inflation of the number of prisoners and overcrowding in prison. But it alone cannot remedy years of political disinterest in this issue. It was also essential to respond quickly to unworthy conditions of detention through another lever of action: this is the purpose of this bill. It follows a number of recent court decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council, which have found that France is not in a position to guarantee in all circumstances sufficiently dignified living conditions in prisons. It is our responsibility to remedy this by ensuring that detainees have the opportunity to bring the matter before the judge in order to put an end to these violations of human dignity. If we are to legislate today to bring this action, it is regrettable, as my colleague Laurence Vichnievsky pointed out in committee, that we did not take the lead long ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure laid down in the draft law is understandable and measured. As a result of an inmate's report, the law first provides for the intervention of the prison administration, which will make its observations to the seised judge, who will be different depending on whether the person is in pre-trial detention or is serving his sentence. If the unworthy conditions of detention are confirmed, the prison administration will have to remedy them within one month. Failing this, the judge may order the transfer of the detainee, his immediate release or an adjustment of sentence. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is convinced that this procedure will bring legibility and greater responsiveness. That is why we will vote on this bill. France, a country of human rights, can no longer impose unworthy treatment on its detainees or, consequently, on its prison staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u37	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u38	In the introduction to my remarks, I would like, as you have done, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to express my gratitude to the prison staff, who fulfil a major and expected mission of society, in very difficult working conditions. I do not want criticism of the prison situation to suggest that we do not know how immense and complicated this work is, how much satisfaction it generates, but also strong disappointments, sometimes exasperation due to the behaviour of some inmates. These staff have experienced the health risk in an exemplary and serene manner and have appreciated the decline in the prison population, which has reached an unprecedented level in the last 20 years. As we know, France is regularly condemned for conditions of detention contrary to the provisions of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The purpose of the bill is therefore to establish an effective right of appeal for detainees who are receiving such accommodation. The text is therefore in the register of reparation: it is not glorious! Moreover, the creation of this remedy is dictated by the ECHR, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council. Its introduction into positive law obviously brings our support. It is regrettable, however, that this text, which is merely a proposal for a law, does not reflect an ambition of the Government on a subject that deserved better than this minimum response to the injunctions addressed to it. I will not comment on your introductory remarks, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, on the scale of penalties. I fully subscribe to your orientations, which, moreover, draw the thread from what we had begun to do in 2016. On the substance of the text before us today, I will make four essential remarks. The first is that we are planning here to erase the judge for the benefit of the prison administration. It all happens as if we are organising a mandatory prior administrative remedy – RAPO – after referral to the judge, not before, when the purpose of our action is to create an effective remedy. To deprive the judge of the capacity of an immediate injunction, if necessary, seems to us to be contrary to the requirements which are referred to us by the various courts already mentioned. Placing the judge in second place in a procedure of appeal against a breach of a fundamental principle is not the remedy expected. The ECHR advocates the independence of the body responsible for examining the application vis-à-vis the prison administration. If it is consistent and relevant that the latter should be involved in the process of reparation, it cannot, in our view, be a route imposed on the judge. Second point: the cumulation of mandatory steps extends the duration of the procedure, while the effectiveness of such an appeal requires speed. The provisions that we are going to vote on must express this concern. However, time limits of up to two to three months cannot, in this particular context, be considered rapid. Thirdly, the remedy is compounded by formalism that may discourage inmates. The written nature of the application closes the door to less formal circumstances in which allegations, or mere descriptions, could be brought before a judge. In this respect, the risk of filing a large number of unfounded appeals cannot be validly opposed since the judge can assess their merits within a short period of time. Finally, the fourth point is that it is important to clarify in the text that the transfer of an inmate to another institution is only one way of improving reception conditions. The transfer must not constitute a threat or a dam to the filing of an appeal. We know that geographical remoteness can have multiple consequences for the rights of the inmate. In order to ensure the effective nature of the remedy, safeguards must therefore be provided in the proposed law. This cannot be an end in itself, it has been said. It is a remedy in a very degraded context, it calls for preventive measures and a commitment by the public authorities to ensure that, when the judge condemns a person or places him in pre-trial detention, the execution of this decision is free from inhuman and degrading treatment. This is not the case at present. Although ill-treatment is not limited to the effects of prison overcrowding, it is largely linked to it – we have all agreed – and, on this last point, prison overcrowding is currently on the rise. However, the health crisis has forced us to take legislative measures that have had positive consequences in this area: why, Mr. Keeper of Seals, have we not sustained these modes of flow management? This does not prevent the projecting of other complementary devices: prevention must prevail over reparation and individual confinement become the general rule inescapable. At this stage of the analysis, subject to a debate which would allow us to move forward on this subject, the Socialist and related groups will abstain mostly from this text, for the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u39	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u40	Fiodor Dostoevski wrote that we can judge the degree of civilization of a nation only by visiting its prisons. It must be noted that this bill to create a remedy before the judicial judge for detainees, when they are subjected to unworthy conditions of detention, aims at a civilizational issue. Above all, we must remember what the role of the prison sentence is: our Penal Code clearly provides for it in article 130-1. The penalty has three objectives: to protect society, to punish the offender and to promote his or her integration or reintegration. In this case, the penalty results in a deprivation of liberty. Depriving a man of his liberty is already, as such, a great violence and, in a civilized country, this violence must never be added to dehumanizing conditions of detention. Why is this bill imperative and necessary? First, because France is the country of human rights. As the recently broadcast "Zone Forbidden", "French Prisons, the Real Life of Prisoners", recalled, our prisons and especially our jails are, for some of them, not worthy of a country like ours. Detainees sleep there on land, live with cockroaches or mice, live three or four in cells for two people. Promiscuity, coupled with the lack of privacy – of the toilets not always partitioned –, smallness, noise, cigarette smoke and odours, the tensions that result, and even violence between fellow prisoners: imprisonment must be managed in such a way that the penalty remains the deprivation of liberty and not the debasement. It is up to the dignity of the State to guarantee human dignity. Secondly, this bill is a response to the State's condemnation. This has been recalled, the text stems from three jurisdictional decisions – from the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council – requiring France to create this judicial remedy. I would like to stress my satisfaction that this proposal has extended the use of the accused to all detainees. What is proposed beyond this recourse to improve the criminal treatment of offenders? This very Wednesday, the bill which I had the honour to report on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on Proximity Justice and the Effectiveness of the Criminal Response was voted in session. It should soon be supplemented by the draft reform of the guard of seals, which contains relevant ideas concerning the prison administration. The Proximity Justice Act should help restore meaning to the penalty, avoiding short prison sentences and placing individual responsibility at the centre of the scheme. The aim is to initiate a process of disincentive, which, as recent research has shown, results from two closely intertwined factors: on the one hand, the change in social identity, i.e. the subject's ability to represent his future other than that of an offender; On the other hand, the change in society's outlook. The announcements of the guard of the seals, which wish to involve, in joint work, the army and the prison administration in order, among other things, to facilitate the work and training of the prisoners, are in line with this desire to encourage the withdrawal and reintegration. You will always find the group to act together with you, when it comes to valuing individual responsibility, the corollary of freedom. Even physically confined, the inmate continues to have the choice of making efforts or not. To use your words, Mr. Keeper of Seals, one must value "the sense of effort," which "is not a prohibited meaning." However, in order for this individual responsibility to be effective and for the accused and convicted persons to truly take the path of disbandment, their conditions of detention must not be an obstacle to the development of good will. To recognize and respect the dignity of prisoners is not a measure of complacency with them: no, it is an indispensable measure, not only to make them citizens in their own right, but also to change the daily lives of prison staff, which I welcome today. It is to allow convicted persons a real reintegration into society; It is a measure of dignity for ourselves, for the Republic. This bill is, in this way, a great step forward for our democracy, and the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party will vote with pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u41	The general discussion is closed. It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for stressing the need to intervene. Thank you for also pointing out the paradoxes that have been ours and that, for decades, this issue has still not been resolved. Some of our fellow citizens believe that prison is a 3-star hotel. This is the first difficulty we face, because it is necessary to explain, always explain, and it is these paradoxes, in which we are locked up, that are in large part that we have not advanced on these issues. As you said, we're asking for more worthy prisons, but some people don't want prison at home. The same people who want more prison places don't want it in their neighbourhood: "Go and install it further! That's good, but for the others, in the riding next door.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u43	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u44	At one point, however, we have to face up to our responsibilities, and this afternoon I will be bringing together elected representatives about a project ready for signature. Another paradox that we must stress is that we want more prisons, but we never wonder about their desocializing or criminogenic nature. We are shouting at recidivism, but are we wondering, as we should do, about the dry outings or the sense of punishment? And every time, you have to explain again. The same people who rise up to cry out for recidivism – because, of course, those who do not reoffend never make headlines – are the same ones who prepare their toolbox, with floor sentences, for example. Extraordinary! The idea resurfaced a few days ago, and I am sure that at the dawn of the new electoral campaign that is emerging, we will hear about it every day. Mr Bernalicis: You say that if we build prisons, it is to incarcerate more. But let me give you an example. The prison of Lutterbach in Alsace, a new establishment of the 7000 program, opens at the end of 2021, in a few months: the prison of Mulhouse was closed. So what you're saying is not fair. It is still a paradox: we live only with paradoxes and a lot of a priori. When crimes are committed, it is the keeper of the seals who is responsible for this lax policy! But can we stop for a few seconds here – for this moment of pro-domo defense – to remind us that, in a great democracy, the keeper of seals cannot pronounce sentences? I know we're being offered something else, to the right, to the far right. I know we'd like to control everything. But, in truth, what must be chosen between the democracy that is ours, in which the executive cannot intervene to impose penalties, and a justice that will be totally under control, with a guard of seals, already designated – it is extraordinary! – who will be able to ask the judges to issue such or such punishment, to render such or such justice? But at last, we're dreaming! Always, we fall back into the paradox, the same difficulties, which explains why we cannot think together, with the necessary backwardness, measurement and circumspection. We are always either too lax or too repressive, but let me remind you very clearly what I have always said: yes, prison is useful. It is even indispensable to protect society from dangerous people. If you allow me that familiarity, in some cases, there is no photo. Prison is useful, of course, but at the same time it can be criminogenic for small offences. We want more repression, but the statistics show – and we must dare to say it – that it is sometimes more effective not to incarcerate than to incarcerate someone, who may lose his job. I am fighting so that we can reconcile these two dimensions, which is difficult when we are confronted with absolute manicheism. But you have to be honest and not tell each other stories. I have visited closed educational centres – CEF – several times, and not later than yesterday. Low rates of recidivism are a source of enthusiasm, even if they do not make the headlines: only the accident that inevitably occurs is of interest. We have a duty to fight together by going beyond the political divides. One of you mentioned Mrs. Vasseur's book, which at the time had upset everyone. Since then, there have been a lot of speeches, but not much of a fact, actually. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis acquiesce]] Mr. Bernalicis, you have criticized my bill whose terms you do not know, and I have questioned you – which I probably should not have done – as you leave the gallery. You said, "It's politics! Curious conception of things, indeed. I want to reintroduce the sense of effort into the prison, because I believe that a prison, even separated from the rest of society by large walls, remains society.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u45	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u46	I want it to make sense. When you get to know the scales, you will see that my text is not intended to incarcerate longer but to allow men to gain the sense of effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u47	It's about better incarceration!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u48	What's the effort? It may be for a young person to get up in the morning: just that, it's already an effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u49	Yes, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u50	It can be, for a man who goes back to prison illiterate, to learn to read – it is an effort to learn to read at thirty years of age. It can be healing, trying to detoxify, working whenever possible. Because I also want to bring work to prisons – I'm thinking about a contract of employment, which you should like, Mr Bernalicis: in terms of dignity, it's not nothing, a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u51	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That's how we can and how, in my opinion, we need to talk about prison. I know that we are all convinced that this is an essential issue. You have said it with your words, sometimes with words borrowed from great authors: it is true, the state of a democracy is also measured in the state of its prisons, and we have an imperative duty to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u53	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u54	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u55	I share several of the words that have just been made by the keeper of seals, as we are about to consider the single section of this bill to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention, adopted by the Senate. Recall that, in its decision of 2 October 2020, the Constitutional Council considered that it was incumbent on the legislator to guarantee that persons in detention could apply to the judge for conditions of detention contrary to the dignity of the person, in order to put an end to them. On 30 January 2020, the European Court of Human Rights condemned the French State for degrading and inhuman conditions of detention under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as for the absence of an effective remedy capable of bringing an end to such violations under Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The question of respect and dignity is at the heart of the right to the remedy recognized by the bill. I would add that human dignity is, for some authors, a concept with multiple meanings. That's why I wanted the word "dignity" to be clarified. Of course, it will be up to the judge to verify on a case-by-case basis what constitutes degrading or inhuman treatment, but we already know some essential elements. Respect for dignity and physical and mental integrity requires the retention of material conditions which guarantee a minimum space, ensure the privacy of each detained person, respect the standards of hygiene which are considered to prevent a deterioration of health and set minimum standards of acceptability. It is these elements that must be made clear in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u56	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u57	The debate we have on the conditions of dignity in detention is in line with what Mr Le Custody said about the reduction of sentences. How can the sentence, including the custodial sentence of imprisonment, be useful? If the sanction is not useful, then it is unworthy for the individual who suffers it. There are two ways for us: the one we are discussing today, which aims to change the situation for the benefit of the individual concerned, at least by means of a transfer – although, like many other speakers, I do not consider him to be the panacea – or even by making arrangements for punishment or release. It is for the same reasons that automatic reductions in sentences should not be removed, or at least that they should not be left in the hands of the enforcement judge – JAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u58	Wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u59	Why? Because today, as we consider, by default, the inmate will behave well, we focus on those who do not behave well, without wondering why.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u60	You didn't read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u61	It is not for their pleasure, but because there is a shortage of enforcement judges. You have drawn up a list of activities, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have also mentioned the prospects of care, but do you think that the means are up to the stakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u62	This is not the time, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u63	Ultimately, or rather a priori, it is therefore the inmate's fault, and it is up to him to prove that he is advancing the schmilblick. No, it's not up to him to prove it, at least not on his own. It's up to the administration to do it first. Then you can tell the inmate: "You didn't make any effort, man, there was a list of long work propositions like the arm and you didn't do anything. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u64	Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u65	But this is not the case, because the situation in detention is totally the opposite: the long list, like the arm, is that of the prisoners who want to work and who cannot.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u66	That's another subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u67	Of course, you haven't spent much time in detention, Mr.Sealguard – perhaps not enough. Let's go together, occasionally.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u68	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u69	Go talk to the inmates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u70	That's bold!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u71	You have to be bold. Remove the automatic penalty reductions, that's audacious!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u72	I have before me two amendments, Nos 79 and 9, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u73	I am listening with interest to the debate that is opening, but everyone will have time to sharpen their arguments for the bill that will be introduced by the keeper of the seals. The amendment, proposed by my colleague Pierre Morel-À-L'Huissier, takes up a drafting proposed by the National Bar Council. It is intended to complement that of the proposed law in order to bring it into line with the decision of the Constitutional Council. The general thrust of the amendment is to simplify the access of detainees to the judicial remedy and to make it as effective as possible, when they experience unworthy conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u74	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u75	This amendment has been proposed to us by the National Bar Council. Its drafting seems to us to have more positive consequences in terms of the effectiveness of the remedies, if only so that the inmate does not say, a priori: "This will be a new journey of the combatant", or even – we will come back to it on the occasion of other amendments: "There could be one counterproductive aspect at my request, because I could be transferred to one prison later", trading one indignity against another. The procedure must be in favour of the dignity of men and women, which is fundamental in a rule of law. The cursor must be on their side, and nowhere else: the procedure must, in the end, be examined by an independent magistrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u77	These amendments propose replacing the single article with the wording proposed by the National Bar Council, which we have received in the hearing: I have been attentive to his remarks. However, I remain sceptical about the wording he proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u79	The lack of formalism in the application, since the judge is taken up in a totally informal manner, seems to me incompatible with asking the complainant to make allegations that would allow the judge to assess the situation. In addition, the drafting does not take into account the eligibility of detainees for sentencing measures. Under this new procedure, it is not a question of creating a new way of releasing, under any conditions, any inmate. We have already stressed this during the general discussion. The draft also proposes that the judicial judge be given the power to order the prison administration. We will come back to that later, when we discuss the provisions of paragraph 8, but I can already tell you that this choice does not seem relevant to me. The administrative judge must retain his competence over the prison administration, a competence which we articulate in the text with the role of the judicial judge as guarantor of individual freedoms. Finally, in the proposed wording, failure to comply with the deadlines would result in the immediate release of the detained person. On this point, it seems to me that we must keep it right. Of course, I understand the approach that aims to increase the effectiveness of the remedy, and we are all sensitive to it, but such a provision would probably be dangerous: let us imagine a delay or a lost document, and we could find people in the street who do not want to cross it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u80	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u81	I believe, however, that certain observations are relevant and we can clarify the procedure in this respect with a view to drafting the decree in the Council of State. Opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u83	The Government is totally against these amendments. I recall that the original text was prepared by the Chancellery: the chairman of the Senate's Law Committee, who then looked at the text, faithfully said that he was taking the text of the Chancellery, and it is on the basis of this text that we are discussing. But you're proposing something else. I am very surprised that the CNB has proposed such amendments to you. First of all, the text does not provide for a time limit for the prison administration to put an end to unworthy conditions. Secondly, there is a confusion of jurisdiction between a judicial judge and an administrative judge, as the judicial judge may, if I have understood correctly, issue orders to the administration. Thirdly, these amendments would allow a convicted person to be released by means of an adjustment of sentence, whatever the nature of his sentence: one could even release a person sentenced to life imprisonment, which nevertheless poses a small public security problem! Finally, you do not want the inmate to be heard in video conferencing, as is the case with applications for release or sentence adjustment. Comprehensive, but I think that such amendments are particularly inappropriate, because we would come to discuss anything other than the original text, which I believe should reach consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u84	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u85	We had proposed this amendment in the Committee on Laws and I had withdrawn it for the reasons mentioned by Mr. Keeper of the Seals. However, I believe that the work done by the National Bar Council deserves our attention, and several of our amendments will include several of its relevant proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u86	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u87	Mr. Keeper of the Seals will not have had a sufficiently fine reading of the NBC's proposal. It is not true that, as he puts it, release would become, with these amendments, the only solution offered to the judge in this procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u88	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u89	Yes, yes, that's what you insinuated, and you added it by saying, "Look, a person sentenced to life imprisonment could come out tomorrow. I would like to discuss the amendments and the text, but let us remain serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u90	You don't have a monopoly on these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u91	The debate deserves it, because the subject concerns the fundamental freedom of going and coming. Yes, the text also concerns the state of the prison situation, as much of the overcrowding in prisons is due to pre-trial detention. Indeed, in many cases, it is belt and straps, and pre-trial detention is chosen rather than restrictive – and not custodial – measures of freedom, which would be possible outside the prison. While the norm is freedom, and the exception is restrictions or deprivations, well, in many cases, it has become the opposite because of the existing procedures in the current law. We will have to fundamentally evolve, not just in words, minister, but in deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u92	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u93	Mr Bernalicis, you have very clearly distorted the words of Mr. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u94	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u95	You should welcome this text, which represents real progress. The amendment proposed by the National Bar Council only takes into account the inmate's point of view, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u96	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u97	However, in the area of procedure and appeals, there are other stakeholders: the judge of freedoms and detention, the judge of enforcement of sentences, sometimes the investigating judge, the public prosecutor, and the prison administration. It seems to me more sensible and much more secure, including for the applicant, to start from the text proposed by the Chancellery, and to make changes to it. That is the subject of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u98	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u99	I would like to return to the debate related to the formalism of the request. The lack of formalism proposed by the National Council of Bars does not receive the consent of the rapporteur or the guardian of the seals. Nevertheless, I would like you to give us the guidelines of the decree to be issued in the Council of State concerning the procedure for bringing the matter before the judge, since it will not be a matter of ordinary law. I had already invited you to do so during the general discussion. The procedure must be as simple as possible for detainees.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u100	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u101	Mr Bernalicis, "it's all we have to do," all the time! I'm going to tell you: the ab initio sentences have increased from 3 to 11 per cent. It's not under your impulse, it's under mine,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u102	Oh, no, it's under your predecessor's!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u103	...and you did not vote in favour of this measure. Mr Bernalicis, you were criticizing my predecessor as much as you were criticizing me, let's say. Secondly, when I gather the heads of jurisdiction, you are not here, you are not invited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u104	Invite me!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u105	Let me finish. You, you make foam with your mouth: "It's all you have to do is have to"; "It's just, we have to, it would be better."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u106	Leave me your place and I'll take care of translating this into action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u107	But I have a report and I work on a daily basis. I don't pay for words, great principles. I'm not scrolling my fist up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u108	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u109	I'm working, a pen in my hand. The number of sentencing arrangements ab initio goes crescendo, thanks to my predecessor, but, a little too, thanks to me. "It's all we have to do": in terms of pre-trial detention, we are developing ARSE – house arrest with electronic surveillance." If you had read my bill – it seems it's online, even if it shouldn't be, because there's leaks everywhere, but it doesn't matter –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u110	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u111	...you would know that we plan to promote this device when re-trial detentions are renewed. You would also know that we are planning measures to avoid dry exits. "It's all about, we have to": it's very nice, but the opposition, if it can be nihilistic, it can also be constructive. Let everyone play their part: as for me, I do not have to blush in my balance sheet. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As for the decree, Mr. Brindeau, it will be co-built. You know that my door is always open, that I accept everything that comes from Parliament, from the moment, of course, when it is constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u112	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u113	[[Mr. Keeper of the Seals laughs]] Yes, here too, the procedures are followed, at least a few. The keeper of the seals has exceeded the measure with an ad hominem attack and accuses me of contenting myself with "there is only, we have to".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u114	Oh! It's not nice to keep the seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u115	[[The rapporteur laughs]] To close the incident, I will tell him quietly that, if he wants to give up his place, I will take it immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u116	There's still a small democratic process to respect, you know?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u117	We would know what policy to pursue, which would be much better and much more useful. It would be a great pleasure for me to make a concrete daily improvement in the situation of the judicial institution, contrary to what you are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u118	More "we have to, we have to"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u119	And unlike you, I am elected, Mr. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u120	You're the best, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u121	Please, I'm not here to arbitrate a wrestling fight between the seal guard and Mr. Bernalicis! Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u122	By this amendment, we have worked to define the dignity of the detained person. It would be useful if the legislator did not content themselves with the generic term "dignity" but rather urged the administrative authority to define the framework within which it could and should be respected. I remember very well the prison law of 24 November 2009: commitment had been made to put an end to derogations from the system of individual confinement within five years, for example. In 2014, it was estimated that it would take ten years. In the summary statement of the amendment, we list the number of persons detained in an unworthy situation, the waiting periods for access to a training course, for the benefit of the school service in detention or psychological care, in certain detention centres. While the definition of dignity may need to be the subject of a decree, it is also the responsibility of the legislator to accompany this work in order to make it more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u124	First of all, the amendment poses a drafting problem. We agree: the many criteria that you propose to characterize dignity in detention must be taken into account. But, as the amendment is drafted, each criterion should be taken into account individually, and it would be sufficient for only one criterion to be fulfilled to characterize the indignity of detention. It is a whole which must be taken into account by the judge. On the merits, I believe that jurisprudence is the best means of working, in detail, in a precise manner, on the criteria for characterizing indignity in detention. In recent case law, the judicial judge adopts the criteria established by the Court of Strasbourg: everything is therefore working well. With regard to individual confinement, which we mentioned earlier, yes, we make it a sine qua non for respect for human dignity. But I would like to remind you that in 1875, when the legislator enshrined the principle in the law, it was not at all to guarantee the dignity of the detainees but, on the contrary, to make them amend themselves more quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u125	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u126	You can see that the goals have changed in almost a hundred and fifty years! You talk about basic comfort: with new technologies, this notion can evolve very quickly. Will it require, in ten or twenty years' time, access to wifi? I provoke you, but it's to make you react. All these criteria can evolve, and only case law can adapt them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u128	...by being, I hope, more and more demanding. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u130	I share the rapporteur's analysis. Mrs Karamanli, if, on the merits, we can only agree with you, however, do not rigidise the criteria for characterising the unworthy conditions of detention, because other elements, appreciated in concreteo, which might be intended to be added to the list, would not be able to do so if it is already established. I am therefore against the amendment. Moreover, we already have a definition of indignity, which is both personal, if I may say so, and jurisprudential. The flexibility of case law here is more appropriate than the rigidity of the law. I cannot therefore follow your proposal, even though I understand its basis and the humanist motivations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u131	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u132	The amendment concerns video conferencing hearings. We do not wish to exclude them as a matter of principle, but simply to allow those accused or convicted to refuse them, unless their transport seems to have to be avoided because of serious risks of disturbance to public order or escape. A similar measure is currently in place for sentencing hearings or an extension of pre-trial detention. It is a fundamental freedom. We are talking about unworthy treatment here. It seems to me that the remedy in this matter is particularly serious – we should not have to imagine such remedies – and it requires special attention. Today, however, we all see at our meetings that video conferencing is not the best way to convince a particular situation. Let us learn from it for the fundamental issues that we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u134	We have already referred in committee to the issue of videoconferencing, which is allowed under ordinary law, as long as the accused has given his consent, in the two particular situations that you recall: when it comes to deciding on the detention in custody, or on the extension of the detention in custody. So each time, these are very important moments. Instead, here we ask the prison administration and the justice system to act urgently. I therefore believe that the mechanism provided for is entirely appropriate and will make the procedure more efficient. Like me, you have recently had to visit video conferencing parlors: I find them quite comfortable, with enough space to accommodate the lawyer. The inmates I discussed with on this subject did not complain about it. It is not the same, I grant you, of the lawyers who have to go to the places of detention for these videoconferences. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u136	Same opinion. I would add to the arguments already put forward by the rapporteur that there is not just the inmate's word to be taken into consideration. There is also the possibility for the judge to travel and to question the prison administration on allegations of indignity in the conditions of detention of the detainee. I don't want to embolise the courts, paralyze them with the proliferation of remedies. Video conferencing seems appropriate to me: it is now of common use with regard to detention. You were asking me earlier, Mr. Brindeau, about the drafting of the Order-in-Council, for which I am prepared to listen to all the suggestions, as I have already indicated. In particular, we prepare a form to help inmates prepare their applications and make them more homogeneous. While lawyers can and know how to file them, some detainees are illiterate and no longer have lawyers at the sentencing stage. We must therefore make it easier for them to do so and help them to seize the right that we are developing for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u137	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u138	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u139	Madam rapporteur, Mr Keeper of the Seals, if I thank you for these clarifications, I find your argument rather paradoxical. If we are meeting today as a matter of urgency, it is good to defend a fundamental right, with this remedy aimed at effectively combating unworthy conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u140	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u141	That is why the accused must be allowed to avoid videoconferencing, as is already the case in two exceptional cases – not because we would reject videoconferencing as a matter of principle. If I share your analysis, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I do not understand why the remedy we are discussing would be a less exceptional case than the other two.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u142	Of course it has an exceptional value!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u143	It is not a hindrance to the general scheme that you propose and to which I agree on many points that to imagine that the inmate can see the judge if he wishes, when he considers that his conditions of detention are unworthy. The judge is present to decide the dispute, but also to see the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u144	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u145	I support this amendment, despite its moderation – you know that my opposition to video conferencing is more general. There is a gap between our discussions on dignity and the choice of video conferencing. Yes, the judge must see the parties. And without video conferencing, he will travel more often to prisons, to see the situation himself, which would make it possible to change it. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I had anticipated your argument during the general discussion, even though I was then criticized for being out of the question. In the name of the potential embolisation of the courts by the appeals of the detainees, you urge us not to go too far, not to encourage the use of this new procedure. This argument that you make hover on our heads...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u146	And that's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u147	...is not up to the stakes, nor the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u148	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u149	I'm not a visioaudience fan, and I never hid from it. Justice must turn its eyes in the eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u150	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u151	At the same time, these remedies must be dealt with as a matter of urgency, very quickly. However, it is difficult to transport detainees and to meet the conditions for their physical presence at the hearing. Let us therefore be pragmatic: it is also in the applicant's interest that the procedure should proceed quickly. In fact, the important thing is to ensure that the technical means allow the viewer to do the best. However, if I believe the returns made to me, the system is working well now and has found its place in the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u152	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u153	I would like to respond to the trial of intent that has been done to us, even if we are used to it. Perhaps we had to listen better to our presentation of the text and of this balanced system: we are so keen to prevent the recourse from embolizing the courts than to ensure its effectiveness. It also seems to me that I have sufficiently explained the origin of the amendments introducing a possibility of appeal under this procedure. To achieve the balance between rejection of embolization and effective recourse, the audio conferencing tool is useful and works very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u154	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u155	When I was a lawyer, I was totally opposed – totally opposed! – at video conferencing. Indeed, nothing is worth looking at in the eyes to say things to one another: there is a human incarnation of justice. However, as the technology has outpaced us, do we have to reverse? Should we not use this tool? It must be pragmatic, and it must be seen that judicial intervention is functioning and fluid. We can regret it, but that is how it is, so let us accept it. When I was a lawyer, I denounced certain things that I take into consideration today, because my job is no longer the same and I have to be pragmatistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u157	First of all, the use of videoconferencing is not automatic. Secondly, the right to dignity is fundamental: freedom is also fundamental, and videoconferencing can be used in the context of it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I'm sorry to tell you, but you're still making the case for "there's only one thing we have to do": you argue that embolization is hovering, Mr. Bernalicis, but it's also hovering in our minds. In 1985, Robert Badinter introduced the formalism of release applications, so as not to embolize the courts. What is being done about an unimplemented reform because of the embolisation of the courts? You have to be serious! Only in the opposition can we say "there is only one, we have to". When keeping seals, care must be taken to ensure the applicability of a reform which is considered useful; Without this precaution, our work would be useless. And in ten years' time, we would be held responsible for not doing the right thing to ensure the effectiveness of this magnificent reform. You have to be serious and responsible: I'm trying to be serious. The embolization is hovering on the text, you say. No, just, I have to think about that risk. If we were to develop a very fine reform, based on great principles to which we all subscribe, but which proved to be inapplicable, we would have wasted our time and, above all, the rights of prisoners would have regressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u158	The rapporteur's amendment No 62 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u159	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 39 and 40, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u160	Since a large part of the prison population is illiterate or has great difficulties in reading and writing, these amendments are aimed at providing them with access to law and with the help of voluntary public writers. These are present in some places but not everywhere. Care must also be taken to ensure access to updated documentation in the libraries of detention facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u162	I fully agree with the purpose of your amendments, but they are not within the scope of the law but within the scope of the regulation. I visited the library of Osny's prison in which it is possible to consult all the codes. The free legal consultation in all prisons is in line with an obligation imposed by the 2009 Prison Act. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u164	A guide, I am in detention, translated into nine languages, is distributed to all detainees. In addition, 84 per cent of prisons have a point of access to the law, and I ensure that those who do not have it are provided with it very quickly. In addition, the draft law currently being drafted provides for a constant codification of all relevant legislation for prison staff, including SPIP staff, the Prison Service for Integration and Probation, the Ministry's staff and prisoners. [[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] As for the work of the OIP, they are already circulating in the libraries of all prisons in our country, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u165	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u166	The current wording provides that the application must be based on a "start of proof" that conditions of detention are contrary to human dignity. The amendment is intended to replace these words with "indicative evidence" so that the responsibility for the presentation of evidence in support of the application is not limited to the detainee and that the magistrate may request the investigative evidence necessary for the search for evidence. This change would not change the necessarily detailed, personal and current nature of the allegations; On the other hand, it would facilitate the inmate's appeal. Forming one is not particularly complicated, but achieving it through fair characterization and good writing remains difficult for many inmates. The word "indications", broader and more protective, would make the remedy more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u168	Unfavorable opinion. I do not see what the amendment would bring. A beginning of evidence means that what is alleged is likely: this terminology is therefore entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u169	I have before me four amendments, Nos 67, 45, 77 and 26, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 67 is the subject of three sub-amendments Nos 81, 85 and 82. The rapporteur has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u170	It is intended to clarify paragraph 7 of the single article, in order to distinguish between the two stages of the procedure – the determination of admissibility and then the decision of whether or not it is justified – and to set the time limits and to specify the elements of admissibility or inadmissibility of the application to be taken into consideration by the judge of freedoms and detention or the judge of the enforcement of sentences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u171	Subamendment No 81 by Mrs Jaël Braun-Pivet is being defended. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos 85 and 82, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u172	The first concerns the second appeal of an inmate whose first appeal was allegedly dismissed. The text provides for the need to present an additional element in order to ensure the admissibility of the second request: the sub-amendment specifies that the element does not have to be objectively new, but that it was not put forward by the detainee in his first request. The aim is to avoid declaring inadmissible a request which it would seem logical to allow. The second sub-amendment seeks to clarify the office of the judge. Perhaps you will tell me that he is already satisfied, but it is appropriate to clarify that the judge may visit the premises to examine the veracity of the elements or to have checks carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u173	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u174	It concerns the admissibility of the complaint. The judge has ten days to carry out the checks and collect the observations of the prison administration: if he does not have sufficient evidence at the end of this decade, the cutlet falls and the application is declared inadmissible. The purpose of the amendment is to cut these ten days into two five-day periods: in the first, the Public Prosecutor's Office will address its observations to the judge, and then the judge may request any additional checks that he or she considers necessary. That seems indispensable. Exercise is not easy for the prison administration, which must almost incriminate itself. The device I propose is more flexible. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of all prison staff, particularly those working in the prison in my department of Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u175	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u176	It aims at reshaping the procedural deadlines to better adapt them to the urgency of the situation of a person detained under conditions unworthy of his or her fundamental rights. From the time the application is filed by the detainee to the time the action is taken, the procedure could last up to seventy-six days. As the general controller of places of deprivation of liberty pointed out, "this expectation could prove futile in the event that the last magistrate did not intervene within the required time limits; The text provides that the failure of the appeal to have been examined within 15 days will be deemed not to have occurred. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u177	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u178	We had already tabled this amendment in the Committee on Laws to blow up the three-day floor. Indeed, the text gives the administration between three and ten days to transmit to the judge its observations on the situation of the inmate. The aim of the amendment is, in the interests of readability and simplicity, to give the administration a period of ten days.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u180	Mrs Untermaier, we have debated your amendment in committee. The minimum deadline is to give the prison administration time to submit its observations: setting it three days does not seem to me excessive. The administration sometimes transmits very complete reports, which can be up to fifty pages long: it will therefore appreciate the benefit of this time limit which it is appropriate to grant. Mrs Moutchou, the opinion is also against your amendment. I fear that the addition of a step will complicate the procedure. Mr Brindeau, I am voting in my personal capacity because the committee has not delivered a favourable opinion on your sub-amendment No 82, the wording of which is interesting. On the other hand, the opinion is unfavourable on the other two sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u182	I fully agree with the rapporteur. I smile, Mr Brindeau, because you almost gave me the arguments to judge your sub-amendment satisfied, although I am in favour of it. I am in favour of sub-amendment No 82 and amendment No 67, as amended, and against other sub-amendments and amendments for the reasons just set out in detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u183	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u184	I do not wish to go back to sub-amendment No 82 and the assessment of the custody of seals, but to sub-amendment No 85. In fact, it seemed to me that you understood that the admissibility of a new application could be accepted if the accused or the convicted person provided an additional element which he had not submitted at the time of his first application, not that this element was objectively new but that he had not been submitted to the judge. I have not heard the rapporteur's argument on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u185	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u186	It is not intended to define what unworthy conditions of detention may be, as our colleagues in the Socialist and related group wanted to do a little earlier – which could have been of interest. It consists of stating that, in order to determine whether the detention takes place under correct conditions, the judge may analyse the situation in the light of the following elements, the list of which is not exhaustive, but which give direction: "the occupancy rate of the prison; the individual space effectively available to the detained person, including, in particular, the area of his or her assignment cell, the time spent in that cell and respect for his or her privacy; the capacity of the collective spaces of the establishment; the hygiene and health conditions of all premises of the institution to which the detained person has access; the effective access of the detainee to motivational activities aimed at re-integration outside his or her assignment cell, as well as the provision of work, training and, in general, activities proposed by the institution; the prison's staffing of supervisory staff, the provision of care provided and the capacity for follow-up by the integration and probation services; The prison's climate of violence. " Much of this is derived from the jurisprudence on the dignity of detention. It is important to provide the judge with at least this outline of reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u188	We are returning to the debate we had earlier. We do not think that the case law that you have just recalled should be frozen in the marble. It is abundant, but must remain flexible, so that the judge can continue to make his own assessment. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u190	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u191	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u192	This amendment does not establish a limiting list to define the criteria of indignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u193	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u194	It aims to draw the attention of the magistrate to various factors which may or may not lead to the characterization of unworthy conditions of detention. The famous term "in particular" – which everyone here knows well – guarantees to the judge that he or she retains all his or her liberty as a magistrate. For those who will read the law after its adoption, in particular detainees and their counsel, it is a question of what may be pointed out in order to assert the indignity of the conditions of detention. By adopting this amendment, we would not block anything, we would allow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u195	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u196	The list isn't exhaustive, but it's superfetative. The criteria you have included in the amendment are well known to the judiciary. We must trust the judges, who are very familiar with their profession. The expression "unworthy conditions of detention" is not new: it has long been part of the judicial landscape. There is no point in making the law too talkative; It can even have the opposite effect: to bring rigidity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u197	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u198	This is a clarification amendment, which aims to clarify, at the heart of the procedure providing for the various stages of the procedure, the time limit applicable to the decision taken by the judge on the merits of the application. This would make the device more readable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u199	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1 and 27, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u200	It aims to reduce the time limit set by the judge to end the unworthy conditions of detention: this should be less than 10 days. The sooner the indignity will be characterized and the measures taken to put an end to it, the better. If the conditions are really unworthy, ten days already seem ten days too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u201	Amendment No 27 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u202	Reducing the time limit at this stage of the procedure would mean preventing the transfer or completion of the work, as both take time. By this amendment, Mr Bernalicis, you would prevent the prison administration from acting. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u204	Of course, we did not wait until the discussion of this text to consider transfers. Because of the covid epidemic, the situation in prison is very difficult. In my meetings with the interregional directors, we have considered transferring some of the detainees from the most full jails and prisons to those who are a little less full. But it takes time. In terms of principles and in a text, we can always reduce deadlines – less than ten days, why not less than three days... But, in reality, preparing for a transfer, determining its modalities and means, it takes time, and we need that time. I am against these amendments. I understand the meaning, of course, but the prison administration must be given time to organize itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u205	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u206	Transfer is not the only measure proposed in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u207	We've talked about it ten times!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u208	That's an important point. You focus on the transfer, and we understand that in the end, that's what will happen. The transfer will be the first response, even though the three proposed measures are not supposed to be ordered. You can blow, Minister! I know it's not obvious...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u209	It's a job, really!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u210	If I could speak without hearing sarcasm or blows, it would be more sympathetic to everyone, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u211	It's so exasperating!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u212	Mr Bernalicis, you alone have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u213	Let us take the example of the work. The text provides for a maximum period of one month. So, when it is known that an inmate is in unworthy conditions, he should stay there for a month, as long as the work is completed? No! If the conditions are unworthy and the magistrate has done so, we must act as quickly as possible to stop the indignity! It's no more complicated than that! You can say that transfers take ten, fifteen or twenty days – I am not sure that the transfers envisaged due to the covid epidemic are a relevant example. But it is always the same problem, on which we will return: the transfer will be carried out so that the administration is again in the nails, but not for the benefit of the inmate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u214	It's all we have to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u215	I have before me three amendments, Nos 29, 68 and 48, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u216	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'll be quick, because I feel a pressure around me...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u217	It's the sportsmen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u218	It is sport to defend our amendments alongside the athletes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u219	You have to forgive them, they don't like being on the sidelines!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u220	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u221	The amendment seeks to clarify, in paragraph 8, that the prison administration must inform the judge without delay of the measures it has taken to put an end to conditions of detention contrary to the dignity of the person. We actually have a substantive agreement on this addition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u222	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u223	It is also intended that the judge should be informed of the measures taken by the prison administration. Unlike my colleagues, I propose that this information be provided within the time limit set for the prison administration to carry out the work. This would save time: there would be one less step and the steps would follow without time dead. I would therefore ask you to withdraw Amendments Nos 29 and 48 in favour of Amendment No 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u224	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u225	It may seem self-evident, but this is not necessarily the case. I propose that the prison administration be obliged to inform the judge concerned of the steps it has taken to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u226	The rapporteur has already given her opinion. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u227	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] With infinite modesty, which I wanted to stress, the rapporteur proposes to withdraw Amendments Nos 29 and 48 for the benefit of her own. She did it with great elegance, and I suggest you follow her advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u228	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u229	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] When I was a rapporteur, I always tried to make our debates more constructive to ensure that all the amendments along the same lines were acceptable. It would have been a good thing to do so in this case. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u230	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u231	As the objective has been achieved, I too withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u232	I have before me four amendments, Nos 4, 2, 28 and 55, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 4 and 2, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u233	They aim to enable the judicial judge to direct the prison administration to take specific measures. There is a debate on the division of competences between the judiciary and administrative justice. A priori, the prison administration falls within the scope of the latter. Nevertheless, the conditions of detention are the responsibility of the judicial judge. The result is a certain discomfort for the inmate, but also for the prison administration, which finds itself in a rather strange situation: she is a judge and a party; It must provide evidence of the indignity of the conditions of detention and remedy it according to its own criteria, hoping that this will be consistent with both the will of the detainee and that of the judge. We have just adopted an amendment requiring it to inform the judicial judge of the measures it has taken. The granting of such a power of injunction to the judicial judge might be a bizarre thing in our law, but would have the merit of showing that the resolution of the indignity of conditions of detention lies on the side of the judicial authority, in the spirit of article 66 of the Constitution, and nowhere else. If there is one area in which we could, and even should, make an exception, so that the judicial judge can take his place, it is the one we are talking about. We therefore hope that the judicial judge will be able to tell the prison administration what needs to be done to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u234	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u235	The aim is to allow the judge, whose role is to settle a dispute, to issue injunctions to the prison administration if he considers that the situation deserves it. Once the judge has received the prisoner's observations and the prison administration has informed him of the situation, it may seem necessary to go beyond mere recommendations, to explain to the prison administration how to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention. The Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation had presented us with a letter describing the situation of an inmate sleeping on a mattress between two other inmates, ten centimetres of toilets that were not functioning. In such a case, it seems to me that the judge is here to decide, not to reach out to the prison administration. He is here to tell her that under these conditions she must act. That is the meaning of my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u236	Amendment No 55 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u237	They are all intended to give the judicial judge the power of injunction. For us, it is important that both orders of jurisdiction retain their respective powers. In its opinion on this bill, the Council of State specified that it would monitor the way in which the two orders would be articulated in practice. With regard to the possibility of issuing very precise injunctions, the prison administration was best able to determine what it should do, in particular whether it should carry out work here or there. I do not believe that the judge is able to say that such a hot water problem comes from such or such a pipe. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u239	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u240	There's no hot water in prisons...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u241	Yes, there are, sometimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u242	At the same time, the judge is not a plumber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u243	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u244	We would not take an excessive legal risk by introducing such a provision in the text. If it were not constitutional, the rest of the text's architecture would not be in jeopardy. The magistrate isn't going to say that we have to fix this or that line! If there's no hot water, he'll say there's got to be, don't. It is not necessary to caricature in this way what these injunctions might be; Let us respect a minimum in this debate! We are making substantive arguments; We are talking about the concrete and objective reality faced by prison officials and detainees. If there's no hot water, do you think it's because the manager of the facility or the supervisor wants it? Of course not! By saying "I want this problem to be solved", the magistrate would urge the administration to deal with it in practice, by devoting the necessary resources to it. Moreover, if we are discussing this text today, it is not because we would have found it great that there is a procedure to appeal against the indignity of the conditions of detention! No, we are doing so under the impetus – let us say so – of several judgments handed down by different institutions, which have pointed to a failing administrative procedure that cannot solve the problem. That was the starting point! And finally, we're back. The loop is closed, but, unfortunately, the situations in question are still not resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u245	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u246	It is intended to delete paragraph 8, which gives the prison administration the opportunity to decide on a transfer even before the judge's decision. Indeed, the three possible decisions – release under judicial supervision, sentencing arrangements, transfer – are not prioritised, and we must keep the full range of possible measures, otherwise we can be sure that there will be a problem of managing detention. We did not wait for this text to reflect on the management of prison overcrowding and the difficulties it creates. Some of us, in the Chamber, had proposed mechanisms of prison regulation, in fact mentioned by the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty of the time – the predecessor of the current one – but these had been swept away with a turn of the hand! We were told that this was not the subject, that the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill would allow for ab initio sentencing adjustments – in 11% of cases, great! –, which would solve the problem. Not only has the problem of prison overcrowding not been resolved, but it is getting worse, day after day, despite the health situation in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u247	Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u249	In the end, Mr. Bernalicis, you want to prevent transfers here. In addition, you do not want time to carry out work; you do not want to increase the means of justice; You don't want us to build new prisons or renovate existing ones. So you still don't have a solution to offer us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u250	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u251	Transfer is not the alpha and omega of this text, but it is one of the possibilities it offers. During the hearings, we heard that this was indeed a solution among others, and the prison administration indicated its intention to make use of all the possibilities at its disposal. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u252	Does the minister agree?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u253	The minister obviously agrees, Madam President! We are already making transfers, making sure the prisoners agree. If a prison is full and there is another facility nearby that is a little less full, we ask the inmates what they prefer. Some detainees who do not receive visits, especially when they do not have a family, sometimes call for the transfer of their wishes in order to benefit from more dignified conditions of detention. Is that the possibility you'd like to remove? All this is just bla-bla, and especially nihilism! You're not making any proposals, you're just criticizing. You're definitely against everything, that's your posture. Unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u254	We understood, Mr. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u255	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u256	A seal keeper who says that, in the present state of law, transfers are already being made, but that because of Mr Bernalicis, we will no longer be able to do so, despite the new procedure laid down in this text, it is extraordinary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u257	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u258	[[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LaREM group]] What a lack of legal rigour, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u259	That's an insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u260	Stop it, you're making yourself ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u261	A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u262	I expected better from you, who are such a great lawyer – I am talking about the lawyer because, as far as the minister is concerned, I prefer to silence the qualifiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u263	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the next text concerns sport, but I am not here to be a referee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u264	Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u265	Yes, that's your role.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u266	Yes, you're a referee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u267	But our debate has nothing to do with a sports game!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u268	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u269	Madam President, I am not here in any game; We are talking about the conditions of detention of detainees. [[The president cut the speaker's microphone]] I do not know if you have had the opportunity to visit prisons since the beginning of the legislature, but if that is the case, you can understand that the passion with which we participate in these debates is not due to the fact that we are men, to a rate of testosterone or to what – this analysis and these words are displaced – but to the existence of situations of distress and palpable indignity. We see it in the eyes of men and women who live in these conditions and that we can meet when we visit these institutions in our capacity as parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u270	Thank you, my dear colleague. Since you have asked me, I reply: I have been able to visit the Health Prison, and it is very important that all parliamentarians, whether they are members of the Law Commission or not, have access to the detention centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u271	We've been going there for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u272	The president of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic has the floor to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u273	[[Smile]] The woman who's falling to pic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u274	It is intended to ensure that the appeal against unworthy conditions of detention does not turn into an infernal round for the inmate. In the event of a transfer decided by the prison administration, the prison administration should provide any guarantee that the new conditions proposed to the prisoner, in the institution where he or she would be re-incarcerated, are in accordance with respect for dignity, as is legitimate. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u275	The next speaker is Mr Pascal Brindeau, in support of sub-amendment No 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u276	The amendment tabled by the Chair of the Law Committee refers to the debate we have had in committee on the transfer. The latter must offer a real improvement in the conditions of detention. In other words, the disadvantage of the detainee's removal from his or her place of life or family must be balanced against the new conditions of detention proposed to him or her. I had tabled an amendment on this subject in committee, but I must admit that the President's amendment is much better drafted than mine. The purpose of this sub-amendment is simply to clarify that the transfer must represent a real improvement in the conditions of detention. You say, Mr Keeper of the Seals, Madam Rapporteur, that the transfer is not the only solution provided by the bill, that it is not the alpha and the omega. Only as long as we have not improved existing buildings, including their health, or created additional prison spaces to reduce prison overcrowding, this will sometimes be the only option to ensure more dignified conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u277	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u278	The amendment tends to reverse the burden of proof, which would be placed on the prison administration, since it would be up to the prison administration to declare that it can accommodate the prisoner in decent conditions in a particular institution. However, it will already send observations to the judge and then inform him of the measures taken. It goes without saying that the judge who will pronounce a transfer will have at heart the improvement of the conditions of detention. To ask the prison administration to show, before the transfer, that the new conditions will be worthy – this is not necessarily due to the state of the cell, other elements that can be taken into account – does not seem to me to fit correctly into the intended device. [[Rires on several benches]] Unfortunately, dear President, I shall therefore give a timidly unfavourable opinion on your amendment, as well as on Mr Brindeau's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u279	Oh, that's cute!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u281	[[Same movements]] It is I, too, the heart torn that I announce that I cannot follow you, Madam Chair of the Law Commission. I would add to the rapporteur's remarks that I will ensure, in the implementing circular, that an inmate cannot be transferred from a place where conditions are unworthy to another where they are also. This seems obvious to me, and it would not be in anyone's interest. Furthermore, the reversal of the burden of proof caused by the amendment seems to me to be a sufficiently compelling argument for me, too, to suggest, timidly, Madam President, Mr Brindeau, that you withdraw your amendment and your sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u282	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u283	For my part, I find the amendment interesting; In any event, it raises an important question. It seems obvious that not transferring an inmate to a place of detention where conditions are even more complicated, but it is clear that it is appropriate to include it in the law. We have been alerted to another subject, to which I attach particular importance: the place released by a person transferred due to disputed conditions of detention should not be immediately occupied by another person.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u284	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u285	I did not find a way to avoid this, but it would be very important to do so in the context of the appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u286	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u287	Madam rapporteur, Mr Keeper of the Seals, I do not agree with you on the reversal of the burden of proof. Under the current procedure, from the moment the unworthy nature of the conditions of detention is recognized, it is in any case up to the prison administration to take the first steps to put an end to this situation. Therefore, ensuring that the transfer represents a real improvement in the conditions of detention amounts, in a way, to protecting the prison administration from a decision not to do so. So it is the drafting that you defend rather than ours that places the burden of proof on the prison administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u288	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u289	One cannot seriously imagine that the cell that does not offer worthy conditions – because of its own characteristics, promiscuity or anything else – will be reoccupied once the inmate who filed the appeal has been transferred elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u290	If...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u291	That would probably be a scandal. At the same time, the prison administration cannot be taxed a priori for making fun of unworthy conditions which would have been objected to by the judge, or first of all by the judge, because I would remind you that it is up to him to carry out work which contributes to the objectivation of the inmate's allegations. If the prison administration considers that the conditions are unworthy – because there is no hot water, cold water, or the walls are filthy, for example – it will not put an inmate in the place of the one who has just been transferred. This would be an internal contradiction, and one cannot decently imagine the prison administration taking such a decision. You're referring to another situation – and we're actually here to talk about it: a transferred inmate who would again be subjected to unworthy or even more unworthy conditions than those to which he would have escaped thanks to the text that you are going to adopt. In that case, obviously, he would file another appeal. And the prison administration cannot provide the judge with guarantees in advance. That's why I talked about reversing the burden of proof. Basically, we're all going in the same direction. I would like to reiterate here – it is not said enough – that prison staff are also very attached to the dignity of the conditions of detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u292	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u293	When conditions are worthy, there is obviously less tension, less violence, and the prison administration can play its educational role towards reintegration. I made my first visit as a minister to Fresnes' prison – I'm still criticized, by the way, but it doesn't matter. In the cell where I was with inmates and prison staff, I assure you that everyone was saying exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u294	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u295	Staff said that without prison overcrowding, it was quieter, and they could do their job. And the inmates said the same thing. That is why I suggest that you withdraw the amendment and the sub-amendment. I fully understand the meaning of this, but we can also trust the prison administration not to transfer prisoners from indignity to indignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u296	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 63, 69 and 71, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u297	Amendment No 63 specifies the time limit referred to in paragraph 9, namely the time limit fixed by the judge for the administration of prisons. In the light of what evidence the judge finds that the conditions of detention remain unworthy. No. 71 states that the judge has 10 days to make his decision in the event of a failure of the prison administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u298	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u299	We wish to state clearly in the law that there is no prioritization of the three options available to the judge to make his decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u301	The order goes from general to private, as usual. The measures are not classified in order of importance. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u302	Amendment No 56 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u303	I call Mrs Naïma Moutchou to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u304	As a follow-up to our debates in committee, I am trying to answer, by this amendment, the question of the maximum distance to which an inmate can be transferred. The appeal must not be made dissuasive by the fact that it may lead to too great a distance. I therefore propose that the institution to which the detainee will be transferred be "located, wherever possible, in the territorial area of the Interregional Directorate of Corrections at the place of detention at the time of the applicant's filing of the application". These territorial areas are very large: they correspond to the Grand Est region, Île-de-France, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u306	We understand the objective: that the inmate should not be too far away, if any, from his family. Of course, we subscribe to it. Nevertheless, it appears from the present system that the judge will decide as a matter of priority a transfer that does not involve removal. I would add that, living at the limit of three departments, I can see the problems that can arise. In this case, an inmate in prison north of Lyon, for example, could very well be transferred to the south of Burgundy without it taking him away from his family. Therefore, Mrs Moutchou, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u308	Suppose, on the one hand, an establishment located a few kilometres from the territorial area of another interregional direction: the distance is very short. Suppose, on the other hand, a prisoner who is serving his sentence in Lille but whose family lives in the South of France: it would not be a bad thing for him to complete his detention near his own. These two examples lead me to suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u309	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u310	As the proposed solution is imperfect, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u311	I have before me two amendments, Nos 6 and 31, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u312	It is intended to clarify that the judge systematically conducts a screening before ordering the transfer. Perhaps it goes without saying, but it goes even better by saying it, or rather by writing it. It is a question of avoiding cascading decisions: the judge should not consider the other measures provided for in the text only after ordering a transfer to which the inmate would have objected because of the problems he poses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u313	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u314	I was not convinced by the rapporteur's statement that the list of measures goes from general to private and does not lead to prioritisation. What you said suggests, on the contrary, that the judge will first study the inmate's transfer before considering the other measures. If the enumeration is not a prioritisation, as you say, it would have been enough to make it clear; We would all have agreed and we would not talk about it anymore. However, the transfer should not be perceived as a threat. The law must guarantee, as we wish, an effective remedy, which is not discouraged by this measure. We therefore propose to clarify that before deciding on the transfer, the judge examines the conditions under which the inmate – accused or convicted – is in the institution. It should take into account not only its family and social situation, but also its possible path of integration and, where appropriate, its care.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u315	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u316	We understand and share the objective of these amendments. However, the judge is the guarantor of the application of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights; It will therefore also be in the context of this new procedure. Therefore, there is no need for such clarification. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u318	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u319	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u320	I come back to the issue of remoteness, in order to stress how painful, difficult it can be for families, to whom travel can pose practical or financial problems. In some cases, it is virtually impossible for children to see their father, for example. These are particularly sensitive issues: I am naturally thinking of some Corsican prisoners who, because of their insularity, are cut off from their families. This problem is ongoing and, in Corsica, painfully felt by opinion. I wanted to tell Mr. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u321	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u322	According to the provisions of this law, the magistrate orders the transfer, and the prison administration then proposes the transfer to the detained person. It is only if the court refuses to do so – because it does not satisfy certain imperatives, for example respect for family life – that the judge can consider other measures. It is to take things backwards: if the judge ordered the transfer after having considered a number of elements, including continuity of care or the right to defence – the detainee might find himself or herself far from his or her counsel – it would be better for everyone. We would avoid going back and forth between the detainee, the prison administration and the magistrate. It is better to anticipate as much as possible, so that a good decision is made from the outset and such difficulties do not arise. In addition, the likelihood that the inmate would refuse the transfer ordered by the judge would then be much lower, even if the measure would not suit him. He might be afraid that he would be left in his cell, since the decision would be re-debated. An examination by the magistrate a priori and not at an advanced stage of the proceedings would provide better guarantees for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u323	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u324	This is an important amendment, a substantive amendment. One of the solutions proposed in the case of unworthy conditions of detention is the adjustment of sentences. In the judicial culture, this is tantamount to a project of exit for the inmate, usually conditional on a home and a promise of employment, sometimes difficult to obtain. It would be wise to give detainees the possibility, where these guarantees were not met, of obtaining the release under duress provided for in article 720 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This would include an additional tool in the device. I know that the seal keeper is working on these alternatives to pain and that the upcoming bill is likely to contribute to this development. Perhaps we could include this measure now in the text we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u325	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u326	We have given a lot of thought to your amendment, Mrs Moutchou. Spontaneously, I had first said that he was satisfied, considering that forced release was a form of punishment. In fact, this issue is being debated. In the absence of a ruling today – we can avoid it – we could complete the text with your amendment, so that forced release is a measure by the judge in this new procedure. I therefore express a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u328	I am particularly in favour of this amendment, which I find appropriate. However, when the text adds coercive release, it is necessary to sum up all other possible measures of adjustment of sentences – semi-freedom, placement outside, detention at home under electronic supervision, parole – as is the case in article 707 III of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The text could be enriched in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u329	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u330	I thank the rapporteur and the minister. It will be a considerable progress,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u331	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u332	... in line with the political will, which has been ours for the last few years, to open up the possibilities in prison matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u333	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u334	It is consistent with our previous amendment, No 6, which provided for an a priori examination of the conditions for transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u336	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u338	It is consistent with our previous refusal: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u339	Amendments Nos 33 and 34 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u340	Amendment No 50 by Mrs Naïma Moutchou is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u341	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 72 and 64 are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u342	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u343	We propose the deletion of the last sentence of paragraph 14. Indeed, we oppose the use of video conferencing, in particular to determine whether conditions of detention are worthy or unworthy. In our view, there is incompatibility between the purpose and the means.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u345	Same opinion as on previous amendments with a similar objective: unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u346	The rapporteur's amendment No 65 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u347	Amendment No 35 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u348	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 47, 66 and 78, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 86. Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u349	It is intended to set the time limits for appeals. In the event of an appeal, the case should be considered within a maximum period of one month.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u350	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u351	It is also intended to clarify, in paragraph 15, the time limits applicable to all appeals that may be brought. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is common practice to state clearly the time limits for appeals, regardless of the origin of the appeal. This precision is very important to me, because the effectiveness of the device depends on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u352	Amendment No 78 by Mr Stéphane Mazars is being defended. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support sub-amendment No 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u353	It is drafting: it aims to make the amendment more intelligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u354	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u355	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u357	I give an opinion in favour of the amendments: we had considered setting these deadlines by decree, but it is an excellent idea to do so now. Nice anticipation! As for the sub-amendment, I ask for its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u358	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor in support of Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u359	I propose to delete the words "the Public Prosecutor's Office" in paragraph 15, so that all parties will be involved in the suspensive appeal within 24 hours. It is true that the mechanism provided for is the mechanism for the adjustment of sentences, but this text also deals with pre-trial detention. If there is a need for a separate regime, it should be aligned from the top and everyone should be able to benefit from the suspensive appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u361	Suspension is justified where there is a risk. It is therefore appropriate to leave a margin of security to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this case, I do not see the interest of the detained persons in suspending a decision that would be favourable to them, if the judge ordered a measure to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention. Above all, it was important to clarify the appeal deadlines, as we have just done in adopting the previous amendments. I propose that you withdraw your amendment, Mrs Moutchou.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u363	We have planned to introduce in the decree a suspensive appeal in the event that the transfer ordered by the JAP would be challenged by the convicted person on the ground that he or she is causing undue harm to his or her family life. The amendment is therefore satisfactory, except for this particular situation, which we obviously take into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u364	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u365	It is intended to clarify, in paragraph 15, that the appeal of the Public Prosecutor's Office was unsuccessful in the event of non-compliance with the time limits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u367	Forgive me, dear colleague, but I do not think this clarification is useful and the sentence is very clear as it stands. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u368	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u369	I find the sanction of not examining the case within the fifteen-day period a little harsh for the applicant. In fact, the appeal would not have occurred when the applicant was not himself responsible for the lack of due diligence. I propose that, rather than being unsuccessful, the appeal should no longer be suspensive, which would allow the procedure to be completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u371	Unfortunately, it is unfavorable. I prefer the current wording of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u373	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u374	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u375	It is intended to supplement paragraph 15 to give each party the opportunity to appeal. The detainee cannot be granted a right of appeal only before the courts of second instance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u377	Thank you for the amendment, Mrs Karamanli. We were committed to providing for the same call device. We have just voted in favour of this. Since your amendment is satisfied, I invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u378	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u379	Same notice: request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u380	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 73, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u381	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u382	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor in support of sub-amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u383	It is a sub-amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u384	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u385	It is intended to provide for the conditions of appeal in cassation. The deadline would be five days, in a classic way. However, in anticipation of the minister's response, I imagine it will be included in the Order-in-Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u386	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u387	I therefore withdraw my amendment now.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u388	We come to amendments with an additional article after the single article. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 59 and 61, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u389	Amendment No 59 calls for the submission of a report on the legal framework for the legal intervention of the lawyer provided for in paragraph 14 of the single article, specifically on the effectiveness of this procedure with regard to the right to legal aid. This criterion can be decisive for the persons concerned, given that a majority of them ignore their rights and that 27% live on less than 50 euros per month. Amendment No 61 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u390	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u391	The role of the lawyer is indeed a central subject, which we could discuss in relation to remedies other than the one we are dealing with today. Nevertheless, we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the course of the discussion of other texts. I therefore, regrettably, express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u392	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u393	It would be useful if, within six months of the adoption of this Act, the Government would submit a report on the state of prison overcrowding, by institution, as well as on the effects of the measures taken to address it. Prison overcrowding poses many problems, forcing us to debate and vote urgently.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u394	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u395	We have referred in committee to the figures published in the report which our colleague Bruno Questel presented in the context of the discussion of the 2021 finance bill. Parliament is therefore also able, through such reports, to provide answers to the questions you raise, as is the CGLPL. In addition, the law enforcement rapporteur may pay particular attention to the effects of this text on prison overcrowding. Although I also see the value of such data, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u397	He's unfavorable. What counts in this respect is the figures. We already have them: on the one hand, we know the number of persons in pre-trial detention and on the other hand, the number of places available and the number of places that we are going to build. These figures give us a very clear view of the state of prison overcrowding. I know how attentive you are to these questions, Mrs Untermaier, but I think we already have everything we need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u398	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u399	I am not used to asking for reports, but the recourse provided for in this bill raises many questions. In the introduction to your speech, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you referred to all the directions you have chosen to combat prison overcrowding. The annual statistical report is very interesting. However, at a time when we are talking about indignity, it would be very useful for us, in order to help you in your task, to follow step by step the situation in the establishments and to appreciate the effects of the measures that we voted for in 2016 and 2019, as well as those that you will soon be promoting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u400	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u401	This request for a report is a way to question you: as long as we do not seriously reflect on a mechanism of prison regulation – at least – or on a revision of the penal code and on the scale of sentences – at best, we will always face the same problems, year after year. If the law establishes a procedure that is lacking, it refers to the individual capacity of the detainee to defend himself. Beyond the usual divisions between the left and the right, we could all end up saying that the time spent in prison must be as useful as possible for the convicted person, which is obviously not the case today. Recidivism rates show this to the envious. The relatively recent report of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council on the subject was quite enlightening, as was the statistics published by the Ministry. If we really want to achieve our political objective of restoring dignified conditions of detention and giving real meaning to sentences, especially short sentences – indeed, the worst situations of indignity are concentrated in the prisons – we will not save such a reflection. Otherwise, we'll miss the story. Unfortunately, we have already lost valuable time, especially during the debates on the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, forcing us today to react urgently with this type of text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u403	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u405	Again, your presentation is singular, Mr. Bernalicis! You're asking me for a report on the introduction of a prison regulatory mechanism? But this mechanism has been in operation since the day I arrived at the ministry! These are alternatives to prosecution, delegates of the prosecutor, work of general interest, the punishment block, the bill – which has been voted – improving the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, the meetings I hold with the heads of courts and courts, or the extension of detention. You say you already know the content of the bill in preparation; You'll see what's in it! I am not going to list here the many measures I have taken. And you're asking me to introduce some kind of prison regulatory mechanism, suggesting that we didn't think about it and that we didn't do anything! It's amazing! It's bla-bla-bla! I say: there are those who act and those who speak – I want to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u406	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u407	I am on this side of the House, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. You can look at the person you are speaking to; This is not so much a consequence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u408	I'm doing what I want!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u409	Yes, you do what you want, and so do I, Minister! If I want to question you like this, I do it; I will do it as much as I need – it's obviously, all in all, quite necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u410	From the bottom, Mr. Bernalicis! Proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u411	Any proposals, Mr. Minister? But where were you during the review of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law? Were you travelling with your colleagues on the street to ask for the text to be more ambitious, especially in criminal matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u412	Piss off!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u413	Where have you been?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u414	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u415	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What have we heard from you other than a rain of beads on the yellow vests and other strange considerations? We haven't seen you much at the time of the text review, and now you're draping in the provisions put in place by your predecessor, as if you had done everything! You haven't done much, minister, I'm sorry to tell you. And it doesn't matter, I don't judge you on the past. In fact, I am not judging you, but the Government and the current majority. [[Same movements]] Yes, we are asking you for reports, minister, but it is true that you are young in your duties and do not yet understand exactly what an appeal amendment or a parliamentary debate can be, but it will come, I am sure, to persevere!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u416	That's sexist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u417	Thank you, my colleague. National representation is enlightened. Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u418	There is more to be done than to ask for reports on prison regulation: to vote for prison regulation mechanisms!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u419	What about article 45 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u420	[[The rapporteur and Mr David Corceiro applaud]] We've been offering them since 2017! The 2018-2022 programming and reform law for justice, the punishment block, the sense of punishment, all this contributes to prison regulation, Mr Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u421	Your thing doesn't work! The facts are here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u422	The impetus given by Mrs Belloubet is reinforced by what is being done by the current guard of seals for local justice and alternatives to punishment. These are operational measures! Far from the big statements, it's concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u423	No, it's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u424	I would like to give you an appointment to consider the bill that will be introduced by the minister in a few weeks' time. We will have these discussions again.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u425	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u426	In order not to unnecessarily prolong the discussion, I would simply point out that we will be voting for this text, because it is clearly in our view a step forward in relation to the existing law, despite all the limitations of the procedure laid down, which we have criticized in the course of the debate. The arguments we heard during our exchanges did not win our support or our conviction. In any case, it is not because of the minister's attitude that I will vote for this text, but because of its content – which will survive when he is no longer a minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u427	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u428	I shall speak briefly, Madam President, because it seems to me important that the guard of the seals be able to know the position of the political groups. I find it difficult to oppose a text that the Constitutional Council has asked us to draft. We have tabled serious and thoughtful amendments that have not been adopted, which, unfortunately, is often the rule here. We believe, however, that, thanks to the provisions adopted, the judge will be able to perform his office properly, which is absolutely essential. Its mission, extremely complicated, is to settle a dispute. Therefore, in the event of an appeal, he must be heard, without having to negotiate too much with the prison administration. That is the meaning of the amendments we have tabled. Similarly, as far as prison regulations are concerned, we consider that it is up to the public authorities to organize themselves to ensure that the judge is in a position, in full conscience, to decide the nature of the conviction. Unworthy conditions of detention do not have to interfere if he wants to choose incarceration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to thank you, Madam rapporteur, Minister, for the detailed answers you have provided. In view of the work that has been done, we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u429	The next speaker is Mrs Naïma Moutchou, for the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u430	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I very much thank the rapporteur and the minister for the work that has been done, as well as all the colleagues who have tabled amendments. Far from the big statements and the "unless we have to" denounced by the seal guard, we have developed an operational mechanism, taking into account the reality of the files, the procedural constraints and the lives of the detainees. The text is an immense step forward for them, not only in terms of human rights, but also in the fight against recidivism, which is at stake for society, for the city. I am sure that this text will bring us together very widely on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u431	Mr Pascal Brindeau, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u432	From our discussions, I retain two commitments of the keeper of the seals. The first is, within the framework of the future decree, to provide prisoners with flexibility in accessing this judicial remedy, a procedure which we adopt to respond to the injunctions of certain bodies, including the Constitutional Council. The second is to clarify in the implementing circular, of which we will be pleased to learn, that the transfer procedure will have to represent a real improvement in the conditions of the detainee's detention, given the disadvantages associated with the removal of the initial place of imprisonment. Dignity in detention is not limited to the question of the number of persons detained in the same cell or to conditions in prison, but also refers to elements such as the continuation of the sentence or the preparation for reintegration into society. For those who are serving a sentence to make amends, we must ensure good conditions for re-integration in order to limit the risk of re-offending.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u433	The next speaker is Mr Michel Castellani, for the Libertés et territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u434	As we have already indicated, we will vote on this text, because it responds to an injunction from the Constitutional Council and because it will lead to progress. However, problems remain: prison overcrowding, the remoteness of prisoners from their families. We have placed great emphasis on the need, provided for by law, to promote rapprochement, a measure of elementary justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u435	David Corceiro, for the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u436	Minister, as you said a few moments ago, there are those who act and those who speak. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are at your side and are among those who are working to put an end to the unworthy conditions of detention and to put in place this indispensable remedy. We will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u437	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u438	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u439	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u440	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill to democratise sport in France (No 3808, 3980).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u441	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with Article 9. Before giving the floor to those who have written on the article, I would like to remind you that at 1300 hours, a ceremony in memory of the civilian and military victims of the Algerian war and the fighting in Tunisia and Morocco will take place in the Four-Columns Hall. I invite those who wish to participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u442	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u443	A quick word to welcome the recognition by the law of the French platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions. As I pointed out in our debates in committee, this was long overdue. Let us mention the numerous parliamentary work that has called for its creation since 2017: the mission to evaluate the law "ethics of sport" of 1 March 2017, which I conducted with the rapporteur for Title III, Cédric Roussel, who has been able to improve the drafting of Article 9 effectively; the information report on the regulation of gambling that I have drawn up within the framework of the evaluation and monitoring committee for public policies; Senator Jean-Jacques Lozach's bill, introduced in 2018, inspired this article. This recognition complements three advances made during the previous legislature: the drafting of the international convention of the Council of Europe, known as Macolin, in which France participated very actively, as of July 2012, by holding the vice-chairmanship of the drafting committee; the establishment in January 2016 by Thierry Braillard of the national platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions, in which the police, the national financial prosecutor's office, the Autorité de régulation des jeux en ligne – now the Autorité nationale des jeux –, the ministry responsible for sports, the French National Olympic and Sports Committee – CNOSF –, the National Association of Professional Sports Leagues, the French Anti-Corruption Agency, the French Games and integrity delegates; the creation of an international network of national platforms in July 2016 in Copenhagen, a group of thirty-three countries that continues to strengthen. This recognition comes at the very moment when Interpol and Europol are launching a general alert on the risk of increasing manipulation cases because of the covid-19, which weakens athletes in all sports and in all countries. That is why it seems to me very important that the decree in the Council of State organizing the operation of the platform and the exchange of information at the national and international levels be ready as soon as the law is published and national representation is involved in its drafting. That seems indispensable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u444	On Article 9, I have a request from the La République en marche group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the amendments to the article. I call Mr Cédric Roussel, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, to support Amendment No. 400.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u445	It's editorial, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u446	I call on the Minister responsible for sports to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u447	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u448	Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 8 by Mr Maxime Minot are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u449	Amendment No 38 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u450	I put Rule 9 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u451	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 30 Number of votes cast 25 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 25 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u452	On Article 10, I have an application for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur's amendment No 401 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u453	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u454	Once again, we are surprised that, for you, the transmission of the values and ethics of sport is not part of its democratization and that you wish to exclude it from the debate, since our amendments have been declared inadmissible. In particular, you have rejected an amendment aimed at ensuring that state-approved sports federations can provide television channels with short programmes promoting the values and ethics of sport: tolerance, respect, honesty, courage, solidarity, cooperation, and so on. We need to put them forward, in the face of a sport that is extremely market-oriented and that fetishizes competition. Despite the censorship of our amendment, I would like to know your opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u455	We come to the amendments to Article 10. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 211, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u456	By this amendment, we oppose the possible drifts in the possibility of blocking and dereferring, throughout the official calendar of a competition or sporting event, websites that broadcast sporting events without authorisation. We consider that the text, as it stands, presents an ambiguity as to the preventive nature of the sanction; Such a mechanism would be unacceptable. In addition, the development of dating practices on illegal streaming platforms is due in part to the dramatic increase in the overall cost of retransmissions, due to the control of private broadcasters over the programmes and the total lack of supervision of the proposed service. For example, in France, the cost of viewing all football matches increased from 30.90 euros, divided between two subscription offers, in 2014 to 79.90 euros, distributed among four subscription offers, in 2020. The shift from sports programmes to private broadcasters has led to a considerable shortfall in public finances, a deterioration in the quality of service – with the proliferation of advertising spots – and a staggering increase in the cost of service. It's a failure for everyone, except for the shareholders. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u457	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u458	Piracy is a scourge. Let us recall the figures, since we have the chance to have a study by HADOPI, the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet, dating from last December: the loss of profits related to sports piracy amounts to more than 100 million euros; For the record, on average 7% of the amount of broadcast rights goes to amateur sport. Illegal viewing therefore represents several million euros of loss each year for the amateur sector. With Article 10, we propose a mechanism to protect the sport economic model, favourable to the amateur world; We have to tackle the problem. Of course, this is not the only answer, but it is already a large part of the solution. Let's start by protecting the funding of amateur sport. The device specifically avoids the risk of prior censorship that you are referring to, since the blocking will be based on a court decision and will be strictly supervised: only sites retransmitting the targeted competition can be blocked, during the duration of the demonstration. With this article, adopted and amended in committee, HADOPI will act as a trusted third party and will verify the validity of rights holders' requests. The scheme, enriched by contributions from all banks, therefore offers all the guarantees of proportionality. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u459	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u460	I understood that you wanted to delete this article because you are, in essence, in favour of a clear retransmission of all sports events. If I share your point of view as a spectator, I must say, as a minister responsible for sports and a connoisseur of this sector, that broadcasting on pay-TV channels affects the revenues of sports federations and thus benefits amateur sport. It is a source of funding complementary to those of the communities and the State; It is important to preserve it. Article 10 will help to combat illegal streaming and thus protect this source of funding for sports players. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u461	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u462	I accept your explanations. You mentioned, Mr rapporteur, the figure of EUR 100 million. I strongly condemn piracy, but I stress that Article 10 will not solve the problem, on the contrary. It will not in any way prevent the elitism and financial filter that instills itself: the one who has more means has easier access to sports broadcasting. That's what I condemn. You agree with me, Madam Deputy Minister, as a spectator. As far as I'm concerned, I love watching sports on television – today I have the means to do so, but that hasn't always been the case. You say that broadcasting on pay channels is a source of revenue for sport, including amateur sport, thanks to the Buffet tax. But this money benefits, in the first place, the shareholders, the share of amateur sport being ridiculous compared to what they're getting! That's what I'm talking about. A form of equality should be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u463	I put Rule 10 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u464	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 32 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 29 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u465	On the vote on Amendment No 2, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two amendments, Nos 188 and 212, which can be presented together. Amendment No 212 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 464. Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u466	Amendment No 188 is being defended. I shall concentrate on Amendment No 212. There is a real demand from the French public, who want access to quality sports content. However, the offers of the many private broadcasters are very expensive – I will return to them – which deprives viewers of the right to follow the most important sporting events. Unfortunately, this favours piracy, which I do not endorse, I say again. We therefore propose, by amendment No 212, that professional sports leagues should not be able to transfer the full audiovisual exploitation rights of the competitions they organise to broadcasters accessible exclusively by means of a paid subscription. At least one meeting per championship day organized by a professional sports league should thus be broadcast on a public service television channel and thus be accessible free of charge. Large sporting events should not be reserved for the public with sufficient income to purchase paid subscriptions, but should be accessible to all. Moreover, the fact that they are broadcast free of charge on public service channels does not mean that this has been offered by broadcasters, since the channels in question pay broadcasting rights. However, the viewer then has free access to the retransmissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u467	I call Mrs Perrine Goulet to support sub-amendment No. 464.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u468	In the report on the financing of sports policies in France, which I submitted to the Prime Minister two years ago, and to you, Madam Deputy Minister, I recommended promoting the dissemination of sport in plain language, like our colleague Michel Larive, but in different ways. To take my personal example, I followed Form 1 when it was broadcast on TF1; Now that this is no longer the case, I don't look at her anymore and I don't even care about the championship anymore. This is one example among others. From now on, many sporting events are not retransmitted. The public service played its role, notably France 4, by broadcasting the world rugby championship for under-20s, for example, or women's football. The disadvantage now is that France Télévisions cannot recover money thanks to advertising when it broadcasts sporting events after twenty hours, since the law forbids it. I had prepared an amendment to allow advertising after twenty hours on public service channels, but it went under the caudine forks of the House. I have therefore tabled a sub-amendment to Mr Larive's amendment, so that we can look at this problem. France Télévisions has a role to play, particularly in the dissemination of women's sport and youth sport. But the public service has to get money back to buy the rights in this type of championship, or even in higher competitions. Diffusing a European rugby cup match, for example, would allow France Télévisions to have funding to acquire rights in other competitions, such as women's sport or youth sport, provided that it is allowed to broadcast advertising after 20 hours. That is the meaning of my sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u469	What is the Committee's opinion on both amendments and on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u470	Amendments Nos 188 and 212 follow the same spirit, which is also the spirit of Article 10a: to encourage the exposure of sports events to the greatest possible number of people. However, at this stage, these amendments are contrary to the European directive on audiovisual media services, and I am not teaching you anything. Moreover, even if I share the objective, it is a problem for me to retain only public service and would again be contrary to European law. Moreover, the programming boxes on the public service channels are not extensible – unfortunately we found this at the last PSG-Lille meeting, for which it was difficult to find the time slot that would have brought together the largest number of viewers. As for the diversity of sports to be programmed, it does not necessarily guarantee the audience. The reasons I have just explained lead me to give an opinion which is unfavourable to both the amendments and the sub-amendment. Nevertheless, the study group on the economy of sport has begun a reflection on these issues, in which I invite you to participate – this is already the case of a number of you, in particular Mr Larive, the group being trans-partisan. I would be grateful if you, Madam Deputy Minister, could share with us your thoughts on this matter. The French Presidency of the European Union could provide a framework for the outcome of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u472	For sports players, federations, professional leagues, the challenge is to find the right balance between the visibility they intend to give to their competitions and the income they will derive from them. It is important to give greater visibility to sport, not only male but also female, as well as to smaller sports, as this allows federations to find sponsors or retain their private partners. The equation is not always easy to solve for sports players, especially when broadcasters don't make a lot of financial offers to them; It is even less so when they offer several disciplines to their adherents, and not just men's sport. Like Mrs Goulet, we are sensitive to the issue of advertising after twenty hours. It is all the more important since the Olympic Games will be broadcast on public service channels in 2024, and sports competitions include half-times and beaches during which it would be possible to insert advertising. We are discussing this with the Minister of Culture. We must also reflect on possible developments in the list of events of major importance, drawn up jointly by the Ministry of Sport and Culture. It should be strengthened, in particular with regard to women's competitions and parasport competitions, for athletes with disabilities. In fact, we want to organize an increasing number of Parasport competitions by 2024, to make spectators and viewers more familiar with and understand them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u473	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u474	I withdraw my sub-amendment, which does not correspond to Mr Larive's amendment. However, I would like to point out, Madam Deputy Minister, that the Members of Parliament adopted this measure when the bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age was examined in committee. Unfortunately, this one is not moving forward. And if we table amendments to other texts, they are considered legislative riders. Could the Government therefore propose an amendment to the present bill to that effect, so that it may be considered by the Senate? Finally, this would allow the public service to be competitive in the acquisition of transmission rights, and to ensure that competition is seen by as many as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u475	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u476	From the beginning, Madam Minister Delegate, Madam and the rapporteurs, you have rejected all our measures in the direction of democratizing sport. That is the very title of the bill! Democratizing sport means making it reach the greatest number. We're telling you that a large part of the French don't have access to sports retransmissions, and we're trying to find solutions. You don't think our device is the right one. All right. Maybe I'm not the best lawyer. But, rather than telling us how not to do it, act! Moreover, it would give content to your text, which remains very hollow. Every time we propose a step forward to democratize sport, you explain to us that we can't do it. So what is this text for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u477	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u478	Mrs Goulet, your proposals will form the basis for the discussion that we will have with the Minister of Culture, in the context of the bill that will be presented, on protecting public access to cultural works in the digital age – I hope that it can be examined by both chambers. It is also with Mrs Bachelot that we will adjust the list of events of major importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u479	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2, 445 and 363, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 445 is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 480 and 475. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u480	I will take a little time to defend him, because he is of particular importance. Let us recall that it was tabled in committee and then withdrawn, when it was clearly getting fairly broad agreement – the rapporteur tabled a similar amendment at the sitting. If this amendment were adopted, you could continue to watch football, whether male or female, Mrs Goulet! It responds to a strong expectation from professional leagues, and even more from certain football clubs, strongly affected by the economic consequences of the health crisis. It aims to allow professional leagues to set up a commercial company to market and manage audiovisual exploitation rights. These rights would thus be managed by a dedicated entity with appropriate means and, where appropriate, with the financial support of third-party investors. In addition, in the difficult context we know, the amendment tends to avoid any new tax burden linked to the creation of such companies, with a view to safeguarding the financial situation. I call on you to vote on it. It should logically attract the support of the rapporteur, who provided the original idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u481	I call Mr Cédric Roussel to support Amendment No. 445.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u482	In my turn, I will take a little time to defend my amendment. We laid a first brick in committee, Mr.Minot, but we agreed that the work deserved to be continued. In any case, I am pleased to see that the measure is supported on several benches. We have the same objective: to consolidate the model of financial solidarity between professional and amateur sport. This model can only work if professional sport continues to live – it is the foundation. This implies accompanying certain developments. Two foundations characterize sport in France: on the one hand, financial solidarity; On the other hand, a concertation of the greatest number, i.e. an alliance between the amateur world and the professional world, under the supervision of the Ministry responsible for sports. The system we are defending exists in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy, but there is no question of adopting the Anglo-Saxon model. We intend to introduce changes, while preserving the French sports spirit. We have been working on this for months or even years – Pierre-Yves Bournazel could testify to this as co-chair of the sports economics study group. The subject is therefore not new, and the legislator has all the legitimacy to regulate commercial companies that could be created by professional leagues, which is precisely the subject of the amendment. The objective is threefold: to revive a sector in deep financial crisis, from amateur clubs to professional clubs; supporting the competitiveness of clubs at European level, so that they fight on equal terms with their competitors – this issue is not unique to sport; best manage practices to avoid drifts, whether they are financial – I am thinking of the Mediapro affair – or they challenge our model of solidarity between professional and amateur worlds, symbolized by the Buffet tax. I therefore propose that the sports leagues should be able to set up commercial companies to manage audiovisual rights. It is the duty of the National Assembly to supervise their functioning. As a result, external investors would not be able to own more than 20% of their capital; The league would therefore hold 80% of the capital, with the corresponding voting rights. Investors would bring cash, and the valorization of rights would strengthen our model of financing sport, to the benefit of clubs, not only professional but also amateurs. The scheme would also be guided by the principle of financial solidarity between professional and amateur sport, which is expressly mentioned in the new article L. 132-1-2 of the sports code that we propose. We would go further than the current article on professional leagues, which does not mention this solidarity. Another framework: a decree would specify the list of natural and legal persons who cannot hold a stake in these companies, in order to avoid any conflict of interest. Finally – this is a major element – the statutes of these companies should be approved by the Minister responsible for sports, after the advice of the federation concerned. It would therefore be an a priori control of the public authority and its delegate. Remember that the federation must already validate, in general assembly, any changes to the statutes of the league involving the creation of a commercial company. In the end, as they say at home, it is a "belt and straps" amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u483	I call Mr Regis Juanico to support sub-amendment No. 480.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u484	I do not know if your amendment is 'belt and straps', rapporteur, but it is in any case substantial, and it deserves to be looked at. This is probably one of the most important amendments to this bill. The organisation of sport in France is relatively simple, and I think it is balanced: the Ministry responsible for sports, which guarantees the unity of the public service throughout the country, works in relation to the federations. This relationship is evolving, from guardianship to control, through delegation contracts. Secondly, sports federations can create professional leagues, to which they entrust, through sub-delegation contracts, the performance of public service missions in sport. One principle lies at the heart of the relationship between sports federations and professional leagues: solidarity between professional and amateur sport – the rapporteur mentioned this. However, his amendment omits other issues as important as the delegation of audiovisual rights: I am thinking of marketing rights, the provision of players from each team in France – an essential subject – and the training of young players. Football is going through a financial crisis – let's not undermine it. The only federation that has given its audiovisual rights to its league is football. All the other federations – they have been consulted – oppose the creation of a commercial company. There is therefore no consensus on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u485	The rapporteur for Title II of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education is in favour of sub-amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u486	The aim of Amendment No 445 is to ensure that the creation of a commercial subsidiary does not create a new tax burden for professional leagues. If that were the case, and to use a consecrated phrase, rapporteur, it would not be 'computer happiness'! However, it turns out that this objective is being met at a constant level of law. For the sake of simplification, I propose to delete 3° of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u487	I call Mr Benjamin Dirx to support Amendment No. 363.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u488	We are all committed to our model of solidarity between professional and amateur sport; The Buffet tax is the financial emblem. This amendment, supported by the sports world – notably the NOCSF – aims to allow the creation of commercial companies, while allowing federations to delegate the exploitation of audiovisual rights to the leagues. This principle of sub-delegation seems essential to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u489	What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 2 and 363 and on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u490	I call for Amendment No 2 to be withdrawn, because it is included in my Amendment No 445. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. I consider sub-amendment No 480 to be satisfactory: as I explained, we have planned a double validation – "belt and straps" – by the federation. As for Amendment No 363, it is not in line with the will of us, since it does not provide any framework for commercial companies. I ask for the withdrawal, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable. Finally, I am in favour of sub-amendment No 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u491	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u492	Allow me, in turn, to take some time to set out the Government's position on these amendments and sub-amendments. We are living in a period of crisis, in which everyone wants to protect himself or herself and to fall back on himself or herself. Title III of the draft law is intended precisely to protect the economic model of French sport. For me, French sport is one. On the one hand, rules govern the relationship between the State and the federations, on the other hand, the relationship between them and their professional leagues. You are proposing for the professional players in sport, Mr rapporteur, an innovative way to commercialise their rights and develop competence within a commercial company, which joins Mr Minot's proposal. The aim is to avoid the mistakes that we have seen a few months ago in the marketing of professional football rights. This is an interesting solution, which deserves to be discussed, and first with the federations, the professional leagues holding their competence from the delegated federations. However, this notion of sub-delegation is not explicitly provided for in the Code of Sport, which creates a great deal of dissension between professional and amateur sport. On this point, I am more in favour of Mr Dirx's proposal, which joins that of Mr Juanico: it is necessary to strengthen the link between federations and professional leagues before considering the creation of commercial companies. Nevertheless, the Government fully supported that solution, as were the sports federations themselves. However, the debate must take place, and you have had the great merit of engaging in consultation, Mr rapporteur, in the Committee's work. I propose to the House that this discussion, which is already an old one in the sports movement, should continue, and I would like to see a consensus reached among all your amendments. We do not agree with the 3° of your amendment, Mr Minot, and that is why I will give an unfavorable opinion. Nevertheless, I find that your proposal for a tripartite agreement between the commercial company, the federation and the league is interesting and likely to reach consensus in the further discussion. I give a favourable opinion on Mr Roussel's amendment, subject to the adoption of Mr Raphan's sub-amendment, which tends to delete 3°, and Mr Juanico's amendment, which makes the creation of such companies conditional on the authorisation of the federation concerned. If these changes were not accepted, I would rely on the wisdom of the House. Finally, I am in favour of Mr Dirx's amendment, provided that the word "contract" is deleted – if at least the Government can propose a sub-amendment in session.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u493	I would remind you, Madam Deputy Minister, that this is a joint debate and that the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment would bring down Mr Dirx's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u494	I'm in favour of it even if it's not under-amended. The two amendments are in fact complementary and their adoption would allow us to continue, until the Senate reading, the discussion that the rapporteur has begun in a very interesting way with the sports movement. In any case, I thank you for putting on the table this essential subject, both for professional clubs and for amateur sports actors. We must ensure that the principle of redistribution between the former and the latter is respected and encourage the sports movement, particularly the professional movement, to gradually align itself, as Mr Roussel has said, with what foreigners are doing, in order to remain competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u495	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u496	Your amendment, Mr rapporteur, is not entirely "belt and straps". The proposal to create commercial companies stems from the crisis in French professional football, but other professional leagues must also be taken into account in order to reach a consensus. That is why I propose, in addition to the validation of the statutes of the commercial company by the ministry or by the federation, a genuine prior agreement of the delegated federation on which the professional league concerned depends. In addition, there is a question as to how commercial companies will be formed. The professional league will have to hold at least 80% of the capital – and I wonder if setting such a threshold is more a matter of law, decree or convention – which will allow investment funds, particularly foreign ones, to enter capital. This can lead to risks, including conflict of interest. While it is envisaged that a decree will determine who will not be able to hold a stake in the capital, this list will be subject to political uncertainties. We can see that the discussion has not been completely concluded, but if we manage, today or during the parliamentary shuttle, to make compulsory the agreement of the delegated federations, we will have already made very significant progress and we will prevent any risk of deflagration or censure with the federations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u497	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u498	We are very much in favour of Cédric Roussel's amendment and of Pierre-Alain Raphan's sub-amendment, which have the merit of providing, on such an important subject, a number of guarantees. I also thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for the guarantees provided by the Government. The subject we are dealing with relates to the foundations of our sport model, in particular, as you said, to the principle of solidarity between amateur and professional sport. It also concerns the relationship between professional leagues and federations. For many years, professional sport has tended to privatize revenues and socialize expenditures. There is a red line that should not be crossed when building such devices. This must be ensured if we are to maintain the overall balance of our model and allow everyone to find their place in it. The Braillard Act had made it possible to move forward on a number of points, including high-level sport. I would like us to make new proposals in the future, particularly on the right to collective image and loan guarantees, with a view to ensuring this overall balance. The proposal made to us today, in which we are very much in agreement, is part of it. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go before a comprehensive solution can be reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u499	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u500	I have a big doubt about this amendment because there has been no impact assessment. What will be the consequences of such a measure on the distribution of funding between amateurs and professionals? At this point, no one is able to tell me. I understand that the proposal is supported by the football league, but what effect will it have on the small leagues? What follow-up will the entry of foreign investors into the capital of these companies, mentioned by our colleague Juanico? Finally, what will be the impact on the relationship between federations and leagues? From this point of view, it is indeed important to involve the federations in the decision, as Mr Juanico proposes. Yesterday, the rapporteurs asked several of us to withdraw their amendments on the grounds that the work had not been completed. I am thinking in particular of two colleagues who proposed the introduction of a "sport ticket" in companies. However, on the subject before us, everyone believes that the discussion should be continued in the same way, in particular the Minister Delegate. In these circumstances, Mr rapporteur, it would be good if you withdrew your amendment, so that we can work together on the subject, in particular to analyse the impact of the creation of such societies. In any case, I support Mr Juanico's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u501	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u502	I agree enough with what has just been said. Something serious has happened, which has not been without consequences for the amateur sports world. It is commendable that we are wondering about this and that we are seeking to adapt our model. In any case, your project is really not successful. The framework that you propose will not prevent drifts, or even, perhaps, scandals. In addition to the problem of investment funds, there are many questions concerning the framework, guarantees, decision-making and management rules. Moreover, while public funds will be invested, no consideration is foreseen – this could have been a share of broadcasting rights, for example. More broadly, sport is subject to market logic, and the French sport model, including its financing, should be reconsidered. Of course, you do, but perhaps not in the right way. The crisis that we are going through has nevertheless shown the limits of this model, since professional clubs have only been able to survive thanks to the exemption from contributions and other aid granted to them. The sector needs to be regulated, not liberalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u503	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u504	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 32 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 1 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u505	[[Smile]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u506	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u507	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting. I remind you that a ceremony in memory of the civilian and military victims of the Algerian war and the fighting in Tunisia and Morocco will take place at 13.00 hours. You're invited to do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-03-19-O1205.u508	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to democratize sport in France. The meeting is adjourned.
