ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the agenda, I would like to express the strong emotion of the National Assembly after the severe floods that have hit Europe in recent days. [[Applause on all benches]] Without saving certain French departments, these floods were particularly tragic among our German and Belgian neighbours and friends, causing many victims. I wish to convey our compassion and condolences to their families and loved ones. On this tragic occasion, I sent on behalf of you all a message of solidarity to my German and Belgian counterparts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u2	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u3	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u4	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I, LT and GDR groups]] Prime Minister, we believe in progress, medicine and medical research. That is why we will never be on the side of the antivax, the plotters and all those who shamefully collide with the craziest rumors. [[Applause on all benches]] Shame also on those who threaten the death of the deputies of the Republic and those who compare compulsory vaccination with the Shoah by brandishing the yellow star. They don't belong in the Republic! Immunization for all is the key to a sustainable recovery and the condition for a return to normal life. Unfortunately, because of slowness, sometimes because of a lack of pedagogy and a lack of anticipation, we are three months behind our neighbours in the vaccination policy. Prime Minister, your health pass is a pass that doesn't pass, and that punishes many French people. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the SOC group. – Mr. André Chassaigne also applauds]] By your lack of anticipation, you punish young people. For months, they had no right to be vaccinated; Today, they are being imposed a health pass with immediate effect, in the middle of the summer. This is unfair and contrary to common sense. By your lack of anticipation, you punish the restaurateurs by threatening them with disproportionate penalties that far exceed their responsibilities. You also punish those who were first vaccinated in July: even before they received their second dose, they see their freedoms threatened. The French must not pay for this lack of anticipation in the face of the delta variant, which has been known for months. For this reason, the health pass must enter into force on 30 August, so that everyone can complete their vaccination journey. Your mission is not to stigmatize but to reassure and convince the 16 million French people who have not yet been vaccinated. They have doubts; To lift them, you need to relax the sanitary pass that can't be more liberticide than containment. On the contrary, it must be an anti-confinement shield. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, are you ready to get out of the anxiety mechanics of reconfining and restrictions of freedom for vaccinees?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u5	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u6	President Abad, I am, as always, especially ready to fight the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u7	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u8	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In these particular circumstances that bring us together, let me remind you: a few weeks ago, we all had a lot of hope. All over the world – not only in France, agree – the delta variant has appeared, with its own characteristics. It is clear: the rate of progression of the virus, linked to the contagiosity of this variant, is unprecedented compared to the other waves. [["No! » on the benches of the LR group]] We reacted immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u9	Amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u10	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In fact, after a thorough consultation in which I thank all of you for your participation, we are going to propose to Parliament a bill to deal with the situation, alongside other actions that we have taken. The strategy on which this text is based, you recalled: it is vaccination, vaccination, vaccination! Mr President Abad, you observed that the rate of vaccination had slowed down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u11	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u12	Not that we lack doses, you know it perfectly. The pedagogy you're talking about, it's the business of all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u14	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It's a national cause. Of course, all that is wrong is the fault of the Government; You've been playing this music for 18 months, and even more. To get back to your question, the sanitary pass is one of the elements of this strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u15	It's bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u16	It's a good strategy. For that reason, I would like to associate myself with you, Mr. Abad, in relation to those who have the right to disagree with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u17	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and on several benches of the LR group]] They may think that vaccination is not a good thing – we think together they are wrong. But under no circumstances do they have the right to violate the laws of the Republic, or to resort to violence and intimidation, especially against those whose mission is to represent it. I say it and I will say it again: the health pass – which you are going to discuss in depth in the coming hours, ladies and gentlemen – is not just about inciting and encouraging vaccination, even if it is already a lot, since you recognise yourself, Mr Abad, that vaccination is essential. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is also intended to protect individuals, as well as the places to which it will be applicable. Do you prefer that we close them again? I'm sure no, you've always stood up against closing the various establishments. That is also the goal of the health pass, and I am sure that after thorough debates and improvements you will vote on all the benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u19	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u20	Given the speed of covid-19 contamination, we are undeniably moving towards an epidemic course that could be dramatic. The delta variant has started with us a race against the clock that we do not have the right to lose. This echoes the strong words of the President of the Republic last week; They must find a quick realization with the sole aim of protecting the French, all the French. In this regard, we must distinguish between those who, with a yellow star, manifest and burn vaccination centres or threaten elected officials, and those who are very concerned about their situation. They are concerned about their own health and the health of the community as a whole, the economy and the future of their children. Thus, we must be responsible and at the side of everyone with kindness to give us the means to cope with what is now called the fourth wave, while at the same time relieving those who might suffer seriously from this news, starting with caregivers or all those at risk. The success of these initiatives depends on our future in the coming weeks: holidays, school and university re-entry, economic return and, above all, the ability of our health care staff to deal with the covid's offensive once again. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, what communication and pedagogy actions do you intend to take in the coming days and weeks to make clear the seriousness of the situation and the need to protect yourself as quickly as possible? Can you guarantee to the national representation that every Frenchman who wishes to do so can, tomorrow, have access to the vaccine, alone in a position to protect us collectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u21	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u22	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You're talking about the fourth wave; I'm afraid you're right. It has now been three weeks since we saw the epidemic damage caused by the delta variant in the countries around us. We also see the health damage it causes in countries where people – who are not lucky enough to be able to wonder if we have enough back on vaccines – simply ask the state to be able to have vaccines to protect themselves. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The delta variant causes unprecedented health damage in countries where citizens demonstrate not to fight a liberticide government that pushes people to protect themselves, but to demand vaccines. In these countries in general, very poor, or sometimes a little less poor, governments that are rather located at the extreme opposite of democracy and the idea that they do not put vaccines at the disposal of the population and watch people die. Madam Member, demonstrations took place on Saturday – I do not minimize their scope, but fortunately I do not consider them to be the rule. At the same time, the virus was circulating a lot. It circulates much faster, we knew it and we see it. It circulates mainly among young people and throughout the national territory, including overseas – I am thinking in particular of Martinique. The figures for contamination in the last 24 hours have just come to me. I mentioned the risk of 15,000 or 20,000 cases a day at the end of July; yesterday we were at 18,000 contaminations in just twenty-four hours. This means that the increase in virus circulation is in the order of 150% over a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u23	And what means for the hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u24	We have never known this, neither with the original strain of the covid -19 nor with the English, South African or Brazilian variants. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Yes, we have a weapon, vaccination; Yes, we have vaccines; Yes, we mobilize immunization centres, doctors, pharmacists, nurses, all over the country and all the time. We invite the French to connect massively to the platforms, to go to the vaccination centres, to make an appointment and to consult their doctor. Time is no longer in doubt or hesitation; time is at collective immunity. It is our collective responsibility, it is the only way we have and we will use it wisely to get rid of the covid once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u25	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u26	My question is to Mrs Amélie de Montchalin, Minister of Transformation and Public Service. "But stop bothering the French, there are too many laws and regulations in this country," exclaimed Georges Pompidou, then Prime Minister, in 1966. Half a century later, have things really changed? Nothing's less sure. While, for decades, each government has made commitments to administrative simplification, I, like most of my colleagues in this House, continue to receive every week in my permanence lost, stressed, discouraged French people, asking me to save them from labyrinthic relations and absurd situations with the administration. Often, the problems faced by our fellow citizens are a single, implacable one: they do not fall within the scope of the administration. The fault of singular life paths, the fault, too, of an administrative complexity and the dematerialization of the steps that place almost existential anguish on many of them: that of checking the wrong box or, worse, of not checking any. Madam Minister, this week I tabled a motion for a resolution to put a word on these evils that are rotting the daily lives of the French. This word is that of exhaustion, of administrative burn-out, because it is urgent to recognize these sufferings and to fight against them: they undermine both the daily lives of our fellow citizens and the quality of their relationship with the administration. I would like to make it clear that I clearly distinguish public officials from administrative machinery, which, by trying to administer the lives of the French almost compulsively, produces ever more rules, procedures and other regulations to try to master and standardize the complexity of our lives. But in doing so, it often only succeeds in producing ever more complications, accountability, exclusion and, sometimes, suffering. I know your commitment to administrative simplification, in favour of a benevolent administration. I also know the desire of public officials to return to the essence of their vocation. So my question is simple: at the time of the pandemic, where, more than ever, the administration settles the slightest gesture of our lives, how do you intend to take into account the risk of administrative exhaustion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u27	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u28	The President of the Republic said that a few days ago: reforming the State is a priority and we will continue to do so. First of all, I would like to point out that public officials, during the health crisis, have been very involved: they have ensured the continuity of public services and I pay tribute to them because we do so too few times. Secondly, it must be remembered that these men and women have a mission: to serve the French. Serving means: to innovate, to adapt, to consider that the vocation of the State is to accompany, support and not only to control, prevent or judge. These public officials therefore face rigidities, complexities, sometimes absurdities. And, every day, I know, they seek, as close as possible to the French, to find solutions. The Government, since 2017, has had an ambition to enable its public officials to fully fulfil their mission. This, by freeing them from certain constraints, always giving priority to the daily lives of the French. You have also passed the law for a state at the service of a society of trust, which recognizes the right to error and thereby establishes a new relationship between administration and citizens and businesses. You voted the levy at source. You have accompanied many projects that put human beings at the heart of public services – I am thinking of the France services spaces promoted by Jacqueline Gourault. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Agir ens group]] We will continue in this direction. In a few days, the Prime Minister will meet the entire Government to follow the very concrete simplification projects that we have launched. My will is that we constantly talk about the difficulties that you mentioned: it is the purpose of the Public Services + program that allows every Frenchman, every public official, to trace, through the website service-public.fr, forms that no longer mean anything, absurd situations. And I invite all French people to share these experiences, be they positive or negative. Thus, every three months, I will bring together all the directors of all public services so that we can take stock and continue to improve the situation. Yes, we are mobilized: the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have made this a priority and all members of the Government are at work. It is the daily life of the French that counts, with the assistance of the agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u29	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u30	Prime Minister, the Socialist and Related Group is in favour of compulsory vaccination – with an assessment on 1 October – as the only way to achieve collective immunity. But to vaccinate, we still need a sufficient number of doses. To vaccinate every 12-year-old, it takes 115 million. Some 65 million have already been administered; So we need another 50 million. I understood that there would be 10 million left, half of which would be AstraZeneca vaccines that are not available to everyone. So, can you tell us exactly how many doses are available until the end of August? Several regional health agencies have requested that no appointments be made to receive a first dose in August due to the lack of available doses. Do you confirm that? In addition, the Minister of Solidarity and Health indicated earlier during his hearing by the Law Committee that the piloting of operations did not exceed three weeks, which still seems a little light to vaccinate the entire French population. My second question is: in case the number of doses is insufficient, how do you want the sanitary pass that you propose and that we denounce to be applicable?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u31	As the President said: "Be proud to be amateurs! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u32	You lock up the French and, worse, you give them the illusion of a freedom which, unfortunately, is not yet a reality. You made a decree last night, which allows you to stop wearing a mask at the Louvre, for example. So if, tomorrow, I have a pass, I can visit it without a mask. But there's nothing to say that I'm not contaminated yet and that I can't spread the virus. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] So tell us concretely what projections you have for contamination by the end of August and what the impact would be for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u33	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u34	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Everything's going to clear up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u35	Yes, we will continue to accelerate vaccination. I will begin by answering your factual question by welcoming the fact that, following the appeal made by the President of the Republic, several million French people have decided to be vaccinated. It is a collective victory, a victory for the nation. We have a stock of 6 million doses...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u36	Pfizer?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u37	... and it is planned to receive, until the end of August, the order of 4.5 million per week, of which 2.5 will be reserved for the administration of second doses. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] But it is not enough to have doses, we still need health professionals – I would like to pay tribute to them – and vaccination centres, even when we are in the middle of summer and everyone aspires to rest. But the mobilization will not weaken, so that the target of 40 million first-vaccinated, which I had set for the end of August, could and should even be achieved by the end of July. We must maintain, I insist, our mobilization. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The health pass, and I have already replied to President Abad on this point, is not an infringement of freedoms. On the contrary, I believe that he is likely to promote them, Madam President Rabault. And, in any event, I intend to say to national representation that, on the whole text now before it, I will refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. Our objective, as always, is to take measures commensurate with the health situation, guaranteeing fundamental public freedoms and ensuring the development of the health security of our citizens. This is a collective issue and I expect much from the debate over the next few days because it is in the national interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u38	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u39	If I calculate correctly, with 6 million doses in stock, to which we add 4 million each week in August, we reach a total of 22 million doses, far from the 50 million needed to vaccinate all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u40	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u41	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] So you can't impose freedom restrictions on them through the vaccination pass, if you're not able to vaccinate them all.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u42	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u43	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] My question, to which I associate our colleagues Gosselin and Thiériot, is addressed to the Prime Minister. 15 July 2021 will remain as a sadly historic day, when the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) called into question the sovereignty and security of European nations by denying the specificity of the military. We must measure the impact of his decision to subject them to the same right as any worker, except in certain very specific cases. It is unacceptable in many ways, especially for a country like ours that has an army model whose agility and agitation are without equivalent in Europe. This decision is, above all, unacceptable in substance because it directly threatens our internal security by disorganizing our armies and by undermining the principle of availability at all times and in all places, which guarantees our military effectiveness and ensures national defence. It is also legally unacceptable because it lacks a legal basis both at European level, disregarding the principle of subsidiarity and freeing itself from a natural and reasonable reading of the Treaties, and at national level, not respecting constitutional law. Finally, and this is a matter of common sense, to regard the military as workers like others is to renounce the possible use of force to defend our interests in an increasingly uncertain world, thus further weakening Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u45	There are many voices against this iniquitous decision that even pushes your predecessor, Édouard Philippe, out of his reserve. However, the Ministry of Armed Forces seems to want to comply with this decision. However, in the face of its gravity and the threats it poses to our sovereignty, France cannot fail to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Prime Minister, will you officially denounce this decision and reaffirm France's refusal to compromise with the demand for the availability of its armies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u46	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u47	The European directive in question is twenty years old, has not been transposed into national law and has therefore not been applied to any of our armed forces, as several Member States of the European Union have done like us. For the past twenty years, our armed forces have been conducting operations, providing daily security for the French, without any problem, especially for the military, in the organization of their missions. Indeed, the military's working time is not counted for a simple reason: only the accomplishment of the mission counts. For four years I have visited the armies, in the metropolis and overseas, but also in theatres of external operations, I have only seen one thing: women and men who are fully engaged in the service of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u49	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] And, for four years, I haven't heard anyone, you hear well, no one complaining to me about the rules applicable to the military in terms of working time. The military is deeply committed to their status and the country, as you said, is particularly concerned with the availability of the armed forces. [["Well? » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We are analysing the ECJ's decision to determine the best response to it. And if it appears that the only solution is to change the directive, then we will resolutely commit ourselves to this, because it is a question of defending France's free disposition of its armed forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u50	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u51	Mrs. Deputy Minister for Housing, we are going to vote on the bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects. The debate took place: 376 articles, 2000 amendments adopted by both chambers, and a joint committee meeting for nine hours. It is a considerable work for which I would like to thank all the rapporteurs. It is a major text because it brings ecology into the daily life of French people in a sustainable way: major because it addresses ecology in a systemic way, by acting on all sectors emitting greenhouse gases; major because for the first time a law is directly inspired by the work of the French, those of the Citizen Convention for the Climate; This is because it involves unique measures in Europe, such as a two-way reduction in soil artificialisation. We had the opportunity to go beyond the political divides in the name of the general interest, but this text has on the contrary revealed deep fractures. To the left of the Chamber, some wanted to make it a litany of prohibitions and punishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u52	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u53	To the right, many continue to look elsewhere, to minimize the scale of the crisis. This bill is that of the mobilization of all the French. It gives a trajectory, objectives, deadlines and beats the pace of a forced march transformation. It defines considerable means to support this necessary transition and to accompany profound changes in society. However, France is not an island: we will not be able to meet the climate challenge we face on our own. Last week, the European Commission announced the most ambitious European legislative package in its history on environmental policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u54	More ambitious than you, that's to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u55	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] France must be at the forefront of European environmental policy. Madam Minister Delegate, what was France's role in drawing up this legislative package and how is it going to be translated for our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u56	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u57	First of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister of the Ecological Transition, Barbara Pompili, who is currently in the Senate for examining the compromise text that has been found between the Assembly and the Senate on this major "climate and resilience" law. It is indeed a major law in its origin: following the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, it has taken up many of its 150 proposals. It is a major law in the debates, passionate but respectful, on fundamental subjects for the daily life of the French people in the face of the climate emergency that we are experiencing. It is a major law in its progress, you mentioned some of it. Reducing the artificialisation of soils: we will divide urban sprawl by two over the next ten years and we have set ourselves a goal by 2050. The ban on the rental of dwellings that are energy passoires: from 2028 for the worst, then in 2034. The deployment of 35 low-emission areas to reduce air pollution. And there are many other measures in the text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You are right, we need to include our action in a resolutely European approach. As France has been manoeuvring this law and this fundamental change, it is also in the legislative package you have mentioned: twelve legislative proposals put forward by the Commission to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% between 1990 and 2030. France has actively supported the Commission's work. We have proudly supported these priorities, including the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders. As early as 2018, we were one of the first Member States to support the adoption of carbon neutrality by 2050. The French Presidency of the European Union will be an opportunity to strengthen our involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u58	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u59	Social inequalities have been accelerating since the beginning of the pandemic. There are an additional 1 million poor in our country; One in eight people resort to food aid and I see, in my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, the anxiety spreading and this question taunting many people: "Do I myself, with my family, switch into precariousness? » But at the other end of society, everything goes for the better: since the beginning of the pandemic, the wealth of the country's 500 largest fortunes has increased by 30 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u60	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u61	Even the supporters of capitalism are concerned, for the system itself, about the consequences of this terrible great gap. Thus, the President of the United States recognizes that runoff theory is a fraud and chooses to amend its tax policy. But you, nothing seems to have to lead you to change your choices in favor of the richest. The great fortunes prosper free from the tremors that hit the rest of society, but you still do not plan to re-establish the solidarity tax on wealth or even to introduce an exceptional co-vide tax on profits. On the other hand, while our social system has shown its effectiveness in mitigating the toughest blows during the crisis, you are eager to reduce its scope by keeping the course of your pension or unemployment insurance reforms. Your majority claims to be progressive, but remember that a society where inequality is growing is a society that is receding. You can still change course. The debate on the finance bill that we will have in a few weeks will be your last chance. Meeting the needs of the greatest number of people must be the true purpose of an economic policy. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the SOC and FI groups]] Are you finally going to open the yard for the fight against inequalities by revising your fiscal policy and opening the yard for the increase of SMIC and low wages?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u62	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u63	Mr President, we have been acting for the past four years. Just a few days ago, I was in this Chamber for the reading of the concluding CMP of the draft law on amending finance for 2021: 15.5 billion euros in the service of the workers, the French, to better protect them and accompany them during the crisis, a renewal for the third year of the Macron premium in favour of purchasing power, a ceiling of this premium which we have increased up to 2000 euros for small enterprises with less than fifty employees but also for the larger ones who would adopt arrangements for sharing value, participation - interestingly, precisely for the workers of the first and second lines. To ensure that the exit from the crisis is a real return to activity and does not show new inequalities, it will be EUR 57 million for the renewal of the arrangements for priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy, EUR 150 million for higher education fellows. I'm going on. The budget is coming, we will meet again in September. This will be a budget dedicated to emergency accommodation, increasing to finance 200,000 accommodation places until March 2022; a gender equality budget, a subject I know you are concerned about, which will rise by 25% in 2022 after the 40% increase in the 2021 budget. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] And I continue: for our young people, the income of commitment announced by the President of the Republic will help unemployed young people, without training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u64	And the recipes, where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u65	And I continue: the pass'sport which will grant assistance from 50 euros to 5.4 million young people between the ages of 6 and 18. And I continue: emergency measures in favour of students who will be prosecuted, psychological support, of course, but also emergency aid from the regional centres of academic and academic works (CROUS), the university ticket at 1 euro for scholarship students... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, you see that, as I know my commitment to combating social inequalities, this government is doing a lot, especially in the face of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u66	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u67	Last Thursday, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the military were "workers" like the others and therefore had to apply the European Working Time Directive. Although I am convinced that the future of France also passes through Europe, I can only note that by ignoring the harsh reality of military engagement, some European technocrats have touched on something that goes beyond them: the sovereignty of France and our armed forces. If our soldiers are considered among the best in the world, this is not due to chance, it is due to the singularity of the French military, to this unique bond that unites each fighter with our nation and pushes it to fight and accept for it, at any place and at any time, exorbitant constraints of the common law, a sacred bond in the name of which it is sometimes led, within the legitimate framework of its mission, to withdraw the life of another or, in the performance of its duty, to give its life for France. That is why our soldiers have a specific status that does not fall within the scope of the Labour Code but rather within the scope of the Defence Code. Our soldiers draw their strength from their singularity, so, ladies and gentlemen, let us protect the singularity of the French military. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, I know your determination on this issue. How do you intend to prevent this European directive from undermining the effectiveness of our army?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u68	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u69	As you know, I am fiercely pro-European and I am a lawyer committed to a strong Europe of defence, but French sovereignty cannot and must not be dissolved in Europe, but it must come out stronger. In this judgment of the CJEU, which dealt with one Slovenian case, the judges cut military activity into spare parts: there would be the military in operation and then the others. But cutting military action into pieces is not in line with the history of our armies or the ambition we have for them. You know better than anyone that this decision ignores the reality of the daily life of our military, the reality of their mission, that of being the ultimate ratio of our country, the last bulwark of the nation. France is Europe's first army. It's a nuclear power. It is now the only European country that is a member of the UN Security Council. This obliges us and also confers on us an eminent responsibility in the international concert. We must therefore be able to maintain our agility. That is why we are analysing very precisely the consequences of this judgment in order to determine the best answer, and, I repeat, if it appears that the only solution is to change the directive, then we will resolutely commit ourselves to this in order to enable the Member States which wish to do so to completely exempt their armed forces from its application. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] There will therefore not be a two-speed army in France. I do not wish it, the military does not want it, and the French do not want it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u70	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u71	Prime Minister, last Sunday, an international 17-media consortium named Forbidden Stories revealed the existence of a vast global mobile spy network called Pegasus. This network, based on software from NSO, a private group very close to the Israeli government, is believed to be responsible for the massive surveillance of 50,000 political figures, journalists, lawyers, activists, citizens and businesses around the world. In France, a thousand of our fellow citizens would be involved. With Pegasus, this is not a private cyber attack, but an act of state aggression against the state. The Moroccan regime reportedly used this software to spy on French journalists such as the founder of the Mediapart news site, Edwy Plenel, or the great reporter of the daily L'Humanité, Rosa Moussaoui. The French government, for the time being, has not reported any official reaction, except for a few evasive remarks by its spokesman.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u72	The spokesman is never evasive, he is always explicit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u73	Yet our sovereignty and independence are at stake. Prime Minister, before the national representation, I would like clear answers to the following questions. Were you aware of these serious facts before the press revelations? Do you know, by the way, if some of us, on these benches, are involved in this spying? Can you say to all Members that the French state has never used, directly or indirectly, this extremely intrusive spy software or one of its equivalents to monitor French journalists and politicians? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] What measures do you intend to take to inform and protect our fellow citizens targeted by Pegasus? Finally, what sanctions are you going to impose on the countries that have used this software against our fellow citizens, including Morocco, but also the Israeli government?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u74	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u75	I will give you an answer that is both solemn and very short. The facts that you have just reported, if they are proven, are indeed very serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u77	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So we ordered investigations into their materiality. As these investigations have not been successful, it is not possible for me to speak at this stage before national representation and before the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u78	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u79	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am shocked by the sobriety of your non-response.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u80	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u81	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u82	[[Applause on many benches]] There are in our group Members who believe in research and science, who consider vaccination to be one of the most formidable advances for humanity because it has saved hundreds of millions of lives in its history, Members who no longer bear the loss of rationality fuelled by cynical plotters manipulating fears. [[All Members Rise and Applause]] We were horrified to see on Saturday in our streets signs speaking of "nazite pass" with two "s" written SS way, to see yellow stars worn with writing on "unvaccinated". Should we remind these provocative idiots that the yellow star was the passport for extermination in the gas chambers? Unfortunately, there is no vaccine against human stupidity. [["Where is she? » on several benches]] [[Applause on many benches]] I also want to extend my support to colleagues who have been threatened with death in recent days. I repeat, that a Member, finally not registered, called for the invasion of parliamentary permanences was particularly unacceptable and irresponsible. However, in Saturday's protests, the vast majority of participants were moderate and peaceful men and women who expressed sincere doubts, concerns or rejection. They must be heard and, if possible, convinced. [[Applause on many benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM, Dem and Agis ens groups]] Immunization is not just an individual act, it is a gesture of solidarity. The only way to get rid of this damn virus is vaccination, it's immunity by the vaccine, not immunity by the Koh-Lanta way to only protect oneself but the collective immunity obtained by each of us. To do this, we must convince and not just compel. We can not only compel from above, we must also and above all convince from below, relying more on local elected officials and practitioners on the ground. Prime Minister, this issue is also my question: more convincing and less coercing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u83	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u84	I was, like you, particularly shocked by the threats made against several representatives of the nation, sometimes to their homes. Having been a member of Parliament for periods of social and societal turbulence, I know what it is like to wear the tricolor scarf, to have been legitimately elected by the will of the people and to be threatened in the exercise of their mandate. I also know the courage of the members of the national representation, able to carry their ideas, whatever they may be, without being intimidated. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LT and Agir ens]] That is why I am confident that we will continue the debate this afternoon in the Committee on Laws and open an important text in the House tomorrow on the draft law on the management of the health crisis. Let's go back to the history of vaccination in our country. It was in 1902 that the smallpox vaccine was made compulsory. This disease was then one of the leading causes of mortality in France and around the world. Pierre Waldeck-Rousseau, known for his famous phrases, decided to make vaccination against this disease compulsory, a decision that led to a social movement. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LT and Agir ens]] Other vaccines were made compulsory in the following decades, in 1934, then in 1940, in the mid-1960s and in the 1970s – I am thinking in particular of polio vaccine. In all cases, the decision to make vaccination compulsory has led to social movements. Whether they are on the right or on the left – Edith Cresson is, I believe, the origin of a compulsory vaccine – have governments and Parliament receded? Never! When it comes to protecting the French, parliamentarians are here! [[Smile]] They set aside their political label in the name of the general interest. They do not always agree on the solutions, and we will soon discuss with the right-wing and left-wing MEPs various issues on which we have differences. But it also happens that differences arise within the majority! [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LT and Agir ens]] At the end of the day, I am convinced that we will achieve a balanced text, which will give confidence to the French and help them to take the step – sometimes a very small step – of vaccination, by taking a courageous decision to protect themselves and others. In the face of individualism, we make the choice of collective responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u85	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u86	Madam Minister of the Armed Forces, I also want to ask you about the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which of course raises many concerns. The armies are the domain of exercise of sovereignty par excellence. However, the European judges are aware of the constraints specific to each Member State and have limited the application of their decision to tasks which do not fall within the scope of external operations or crisis deployments. However, concerns persist, particularly within the gendarmerie. Furthermore, if that judgment concerns Slovenia, the Court's interpretation is binding on the courts of all Member States. It should be recalled that the principle of primacy is at the heart of the success of the European project and of the uniform application of the law underlying it. Therefore, the ridge route seems narrow to reconcile the imperatives of our national defence with our European commitments, at a time when France must defend its interests without, however, joining the camp of countries that question the role of judges and the hierarchy of norms – which would constitute a real fragmentation bomb for the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] So, Madam Minister, what course does France intend to take in practice?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u87	Bis brought up the minister of armies: you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u88	I am going to repeat myself and I apologize for that, but I want to stress a dimension to which I know you are also attached. In the area of European integration, we want a strong and effective Europe, but a Europe that respects the competence of the Member States provided for in the Treaties in the field of defence. I therefore repeat it with seriousness: France does not intend to delegate its competence in the organisation of the armed forces. Military and collective action does not represent the sum of individual time uses. The pride of our military is to carry out the mission entrusted to them under any circumstances and to make this principle take precedence over any other consideration. The responsibility of military leaders is to ensure not only the health of the military, but also their morale, and to ensure it in a pragmatic manner. Let us not misunderstand, the military have heavy obligations, but these are compensated according to their general status. However, this organization gives full satisfaction and, I believe, admires everyone. The Court of Justice of the European Union has played its part and we will play ours. Once the consequences of this judgment have been analysed, we will take the necessary steps. We will not hesitate, I repeat, to change the law if necessary. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You were just saying that the way is narrow. It does exist, however. We must rigorously, without escaping our responsibilities, ensure, at all times and in all places, the security of the French. While we must take note of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we must also assume the need to change the law of the Union when this development is necessary to build a strong Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u89	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u90	My question is to the Minister for Overseas Affairs. For nearly ten years now, Martinique and Guadeloupe have experienced seaweed failures on their Atlantic facade. The phenomenon is growing every year, with daily and unbearable health consequences, such as skin irritations, inflammation of the mucous membranes, nausea and vomiting, negative economic consequences, especially for tourism and boating – knowing that the latest restrictions to fight covid-19 exacerbate these difficulties – damage due to the corrosion of goods, pipes, electronic and electrical materials and circuits, impacts on fishing, with the formation of anoxic zones causing the death of many species of fish, and finally significant costs to communities and the state for the treatment of algae. I would like to draw your attention to the lack of in-depth scientific data on the effects on the human body of prolonged exposure to decaying sargasses. To date, despite some adjustments and a "sargasses plan", the recommendations of the High Council for Public Health have not yet been implemented. These recommendations concern the identification of people at risk during groundings, the removal of seaweed stranded daily, at most within 48 hours – a task often carried out by the communes – the marking of grounding areas and the collection of seaweed in the open sea, with daily coastal collection, and finally the training of the agents concerned and prevention. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Minister, the parliamentarians of Martinique have already drawn your attention to this tragedy in letters. What measures does the Government intend to take to support the municipalities affected by this phenomenon? Will he agree to support them in their request for recognition of the state of natural disaster?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u91	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u92	The question of sargasses in the overseas territories, particularly in Martinique, is indeed a major health problem and also affects tourism. In order to combat this scourge, the Government launched in 2018 a first plan to combat sargasses, which allowed the organization of collections by means of collecting equipment, within 48 hours of the grounding of sargasses, the collected algae being then treated. Since 2018, 11 million euros have been spent by the State on equipment and collection operations. This plan has also created a network for monitoring and forecasting failures, and above all made possible a major research and innovation effort with the National Research Agency (NRA) of 8.5 million. In 2019, an international conference on sargasses was held in our territory in order to give priority to international cooperation. The Government and, of course, the Minister for Overseas Affairs are ready to prepare a second "sargasses plan". It is expected to be published by the end of 2021 and will further improve the collection and treatment of algae prior to grounding, in particular through dams close to the coast and even at sea. The plan will also make better use of the results of research and innovation projects, advance health knowledge and secure the rules for funding national solidarity to ensure sustainable schemes. The local consultation on this second plan will be launched as early as the start of the school year. It will therefore be drawn up with the local elected representatives and the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u93	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, from 12 to 16 July, severe storms and heavy rains led to severe floods in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. This disaster has left hundreds dead and we want to share our compassion and solidarity with our European friends. The storms and rains obviously do not know the boundaries. Many departments in eastern France also experienced very severe weather.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u96	In my department, Jura, more than 50 millimetres of water fell in a few hours. Houses, shops and businesses have been completely flooded and devastated, causing disarray among the population. Campings and recreational bases had to be evacuated in disaster. Roads have collapsed. Grain fields, whose harvest had barely begun, found themselves underwater, to the detriment of yields and quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u97	That's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u98	In the vines, whole plots slipped. This is the case, for example, in the constituency of my colleague Danielle Brulebois, in the vineyard of Château-Chalon, which we had visited together a few days before the disaster. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] In such circumstances, we express our gratitude to the firefighters of our country for their extraordinary dedication and we especially salute those of the Jura, who, among other prowess, went to search for herds surrounded by the waters. We also express our compassion to those who have lost all or part of their heritage, work tool or income. The State must be aware of the seriousness of the situation, recognize the state of natural disaster and ensure the full mobilization of insurance companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, can you assure us of the full mobilization of the state to help the victims? Are you going to take the necessary steps to ensure that our compatriots hard hit by this disaster are compensated for their losses?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u99	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u100	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u101	Be assured, Mr Sermier – I am also speaking to Mrs Brulebois, whom you have quoted – that the Government is at the side of the inhabitants, farmers, public services and businesses of the Jura. I have a thought for the two people slightly injured during the floods that hit your department and I in turn salute the action of the state services, in particular that of the 471 firefighters of the Jura, mobilized in nearly 1,250 interventions to deal with the floods and the damage caused by the heavy rainfall – it fell, in your department, a month of rain in a few hours. On July 22, that is, in reality in a few hours, we will be receiving, together with Barbara Pompili, Minister of the ecological transition, and Emmanuelle Wargon, Minister of Housing, the commission responsible for establishing the state of natural disaster. The prefects have until 21 July to forward their first requests to the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management of the Ministry of the Interior. If any communes were forgotten, we would obviously, as I have already said, organise a catch-up committee. As you know, Julien Denormandie, Minister for Agriculture, is paying particular attention to the situation of farmers affected by weather. He will go to Aisne tomorrow to meet those who have suffered violent storms fifteen days ago, about which I have already spoken in this House and which I will also meet next week. I have no doubt that the Minister of Agriculture will pay particular attention to the farmers in Jura and Eastern France and that he will give them his full support. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, as soon as the state of natural disaster has been declared for the municipalities of Jura affected by the floods, Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, and I myself will enter into a discussion with the Fédération française de l'assurance so that the inhabitants of your constituency benefit from the adapted insurance scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u102	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u103	Prime Minister, last week phenomenal floods ravaged northern Europe, about 100 people died and thousands were evacuated. Every day, now, brings its lot of bad weather news: historically mild temperatures to the North Pole, which melts at full speed; famine in Madagascar after three years of drought; Amazonian forest becoming carbon emitter; Canada is struck by temperatures that have never been recorded to date; but also Spain, Morocco, the United States, where hundreds of citizens have taken refuge in cooling rooms... What did scientists of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) tell us from their first report in 1990? "The greenhouse effect will accentuate the two extremes of the hydrological cycle, that is, there will be more episodes of extremely heavy rainfall and more pronounced droughts. » Here we are, and France will not be spared. An April freeze after a March too hot, devastating for harvests and followed by the July floods: we quickly moved from frightening forecasts to a frightening reality. Colleagues, this subject, more than anything else, should keep us awake at night. And we, what are we dealing with this? We were many here to defend strong and sensible measures on advertising, aircraft or agriculture. What did we hear? "Punitive ecology! "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", "Unreasonable!", [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Mrs Delphine Batho, Mrs Yolaine de Courson and Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière also applaud]] Which side are the punishments, when we only start counting the dead? On which side is dogmatism when your government remains deaf to the scientific findings and alerts of the High Climate Council (HCC), which you yourself have installed?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u104	You were "On! Also, before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u105	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Delphine Batho and Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière also applaud]] On which side is the derision when we continue, in the face of the abyss, to produce and consume ever more – ever more energy, ever more matter –, addicted to growth as a drug addict convinced that nothing can replace his drug? [[Same movements]] The law that will be passed earlier is only a catalogue of adjustments, which contains so little to reduce emissions and almost nothing to respond to the current upheavals. When will you finally realize that the world to be built is not a simple adaptation of the present, but must proceed with a radical change?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u106	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u107	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, the ecological transition is necessary and yes, the climate emergency is there. But which country, outside France, has put 30 billion euros in its recovery plan for ecological transformation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u108	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u109	... by financing heavy investments in energy, agriculture and energy renovation of buildings? This year alone, 800,000 MaPrimeRenov' files will be filed by our fellow citizens! It's very concrete, we're acting! Which country has worked, based on a civic climate convention, to introduce concrete measures, enshrined in the "climate and resilience" law? This agreement has resulted in an agreement between the members of the House of Commons and the senators, which is currently being considered in the Senate! The measures taken are very concrete: in the fight against the artificialisation of the soil, always requested but never achieved, a target has finally been set for 2050; There are also various measures relating to vegetarian meals, transport and areas with low mobility emissions (ZFE-m). We are also acting in the world: which other country has supported climate diplomacy such as that defended by the President of the Republic, within the framework of the COP – the Conference of the Parties, the twenty-sixth edition of which will take place in Glasgow – or the One Planet Summary? Which other country is committed in the European Union to defending the energy-climate package, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55%? The French Presidency will enable us to bring this legislative package to a successful conclusion; It will show our determination and that of the other Member States to take climate change together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So yes, the floods are there; Yes, they remind us of the urgency of action, and yes, the climate is deteriorating. But we're not just spectators: we're acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u110	Mrs Martine Leguille-Balloy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u111	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. Minister, this weekend you announced the end of the elimination of male chicks in France as early as 2022. Thus, on 1 January 2022, all hatcheries will have to have installed or ordered sexing machines in ovo to develop solutions to stop the removal of chicks, as this is done by methods that must be banned. The sector is already fully engaged in the innovation process necessary for the installation of such machines. It is on this basis that you have conducted a consultation with her aimed at valuing the methods employed. However, if you have planned a recovery plan and if the innovations exist, they are at a significant cost to operators and producers. Since the beginning of our mandate, first of all with the EGALIM law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all – and again very recently with my colleague Gregory Besson-Moreau's bill to protect farmers' remuneration, we have wanted to improve the income of our producers, and more broadly ensure fair remuneration for operators throughout the industry. While we must of course promote best practices in animal welfare, we must also assure the sector concerned that these developments, however legitimate they may be, do not take place at the expense of the operators' incomes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So, Minister, could you please tell us what supports will be put in place to ensure that the revenues of producers and operators, already heavily affected by avian influenza and the closure of restaurants in recent months, as well as the requirement to bring them up to standard, are not again affected by an increase in their production costs? This one becomes intolerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u112	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u113	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] As you have said, for many years, society has been calling for an end to this practice of eliminating male chicks at birth, either by grinding them or by gassing them. Why have we not been able to abandon this technique so far? Simply because of the need to define alternative techniques, including identifying in the egg the sex of the future chick. In collaboration with a German consortium, we took two years to develop this method. It is therefore with great conviction and pride that I announce it to you: France, together with Germany, will be the first country in the world to put an end to the grinding and gassing of chicks; The year 2022 will therefore be the year where the elimination of the male chicks stops. How will we succeed in this? In three ways. We first developed the technique; Then I will take a regulatory text which will require, on 1 January 2022, to have installed or at least ordered the machines to detect sex in the egg, so to use a technique other than grinding; Finally, we are going to financially support the sector – it is more than 10 million euros that the state, as part of the recovery plan, will put on the table to do so. I would really like to congratulate the sector that has made significant investments; These developments must be put to its credit to show how much it wants to make progress on the subject. In the end, the whole industry, including the consumer, will have to agree to finance these new techniques. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, we must now share the subject at European level. That is what I did yesterday in Brussels and I call on all European countries to join France and to put an end to the grinding and gassing of male chicks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u114	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u115	My question is to the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Minister, on July 8, the Conseil d'État cancelled part of the order setting out the number of first-year students common to health studies (PACES) authorized to continue their studies in this sector at the beginning of academic year 2021-2022. I asked you on June 15 about the failures of the reform of health studies, whose purpose was to replace the famous PACES with the PASS – specific access path – and the LAS – health access licence. After the suspension of a first order by the judge for interim measures of the Council of State, on 5 May last you again fixed the number of students of PACES allowed to spend in the second year at the beginning of the 2021 academic year. You told us that the distribution between the PASS and the LAS would not hurt anyone, and you assured us that the Government would fulfil its commitments. However, the Council of State has found that 15 universities have not created enough places in the second year to ensure that the reform does not take place at the expense of PASS and LAS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u116	It's dramatic for young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u117	As a result, the target universities will have to increase their reception capacity by 20% in favour of the current students enrolled in these courses. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, do you commit this time to the universities concerned being able to open up additional places to welcome students who feel damaged by the reform of health studies?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u118	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u119	First of all, I would like to congratulate the 16,750 young people who have been admitted in the second year of health studies; They are 2753 more than last year, and I believe that young people who engage in these difficult jobs will need our full consideration. You mention the decision of the Council of State, but what does it say? First, that the criteria used to calculate the reception capacity during this transition year are correct; So they find themselves comforted. The Council of State also does not question the admission decisions already notified to students in the second year. The Committee notes that second-year places have been increased, on average, to the level desired by the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, and that some universities have made efforts to increase the number of places by up to 30 per cent, while others have not. To accompany these establishments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u120	So it's the institutions' fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u121	... we will, together with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, continue to finance new places in the second year, and we will above all ensure – this was the subject of the reform – that traineeships are present throughout the territory, so as to really fight against the medical deserts which, as you know, are not only due to the lack of places, which we have remedied; They are also linked to the location of internship sites and the capacity to accommodate interns throughout the territories. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Government therefore welcomes the fact that the number of students admitted to the second year of health studies exceeds expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u122	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u123	Minister, do you think you will be able to implement the decision of the Council of State without delay and increase the number of places in the fifteen faculties covered by its decision?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u124	That's exactly the question! And there's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u125	This is the question for students in the relevant curricula.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u126	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u127	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr President, I think I have been very clear. The Government will accompany the institutions that are voting for an increase in their reception capacity, as the Council of State wishes – they have no choice, it is indeed an obligation. For example, in Tours, we have just voted for an increase in capacity of 86 places, 58 of them in medicine, and so it will be everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u128	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u129	Madam Minister Delegate, support for the recovery of rail freight seems – I say, "seems" – to be a shared concern at last. The Finance Act for 2021 contains first measures that were consolidated by commitments in the Recovery Plan which expired in 2023. Thus, we can learn here and there that the four main yards on national soil – Woippy, Le Bourget, Miramas and Sibelin – will have an envelope of 8 million euros this year. However, in view of the objective of doubling the share of rail in national freight by 2030, it is on this horizon that visibility is needed, in order to develop what must be called a genuine plan to win back rail freight. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Under the Mobility Guidance Act (LOM), this strategy was to be submitted to Parliament no later than the beginning of 2021. However, we are still not aware of these guidelines, of the large financial envelopes that they would involve, of the nature of the targeted and territorialised infrastructures that should be upgraded or created. Capillary lines and service lines, yards, plugged terminal facilities, combined rail-road terminals: you will understand that parliamentarians are looking forward to having a precise report on this public policy, but also the future of our regions, metropolises, ports and to the gates of our medium-sized cities and agricultural basins. So, Madam Deputy Minister, when will this presentation and debate take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u130	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u131	You are right, honourable Member, rail freight is an absolutely essential mode of transport to meet two challenges ahead of us: on the one hand the greening of freight transport, and on the other hand the maintenance of a supply chain throughout our territory. When we arrived in 2017, we found an aging, poorly developed network – the modal share of rail freight is only 9% in France, compared to 30% in some countries more to the east in Europe. Poorly connected to the river network and to our large ports – which you know well – it is subject to strong competition from the road. The Government has taken the subject in arms and has built up the means of its ambitions: 3 billion euros will be spent each year on the regeneration of the network, that is, twice as much as 10 years ago. Rail freight is also at the heart of the recovery plan: 250 million euros are planned to make a total of 1 billion investments by 2024, and three new rail freight motorways, one from Calais to Sète, the second linking Barcelona, Perpignan, Rungis and Dunkerque, and the last Cherbourg and Bayonne. The strategy on rail freight, provided for in the Mobility Guidance Act (LOM), will be well presented to Parliament by the end of the summer. It will help to define a strategic roadmap for the coming years and will meet precisely the objective, set out in the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, of doubling the share of freight by 2030. Parliament will therefore be seized, in accordance with what was planned after the adoption of the LOM. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union will offer an unprecedented opportunity to drive a European-wide dynamic, in continuity with the year of rail, so that this freight recovery takes place in France and throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u132	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u133	My question concerning sports betting is addressed to the Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement. I associate Cécile Rilhac, Member of Parliament for Val-d'Oise, who has done an alert work on the subject, as well as the members of the study groups on sport and the economy of sport of our assembly. The Euro 2020 football event has brought to light a phenomenon that has been growing for several years and is of great concern to me: sports bets for young people. Several online betting platforms directly target our youth through advertising campaigns in favour of the game, implying that it contributes to social success. These campaigns attract young people by portraying influential public figures and people who would have gotten out of trouble through the game. Some 2.5 million French are considered to be players. In 2011, 18-24 year olds accounted for 17% of players; Ten years later, this percentage doubled. With regard to gambling in general, Public Health France notes that 300 000 French people suffer from a moderate or excessive risk of addiction, that young people are six times more likely to develop an addiction, that 40 % of the turnover of gambling operators comes from people with excessive practices. On the basis of this data, I do not believe that one becomes "rich on a head start", that one obtains "great respect" or that one "removes his bank account" when one is in debt like 70% of the players. The Code of Internal Security provides, however, that minors, even emancipated, may not take part in gambling, the public offer of which is authorized by law. A decree of November 4, 2020 states that "advertises that trivialize the game, that indicate that the game values social success, or that by playing, one can make a living. These provisions do not appear to have led to any investigation or prosecution. [[Many applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know, Madam Secretary of State, that you share our commitment to protecting our youth. How do you plan to better frame the promotion of these betting platforms in order to avoid current drifts?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u134	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u135	Your question, MP Roussel, allows me to say how much the Government is committed to the protection of our young people, at every moment of their lives, and to remind national representation of the work that has been done. As you have rightly pointed out, the Euro 2020 football was a kind of accelerator of communication campaigns of the platforms in favour of sports betting. We were alarmed for several reasons: 75% of the betters were under 34 years of age; more than 435 million euros were invested with French gaming operators during this period; It is the competition that has generated the most traffic since the authorisation of online bets. Again this morning, I was receiving the president of the National Games Authority (ANJ), whom I had alerted as early as July 9, in order to ensure that the two sporting deadlines that are close to your heart – the Olympic Games of 2021 and the World Cup of 2022 – were in the best conditions. Starting this afternoon, the president of the ANJ will receive all operators, reminding them of their obligations and commitments. As I say with great firmness, sanctions will be imposed in the event of non-compliance with these commitments. These consultations aim to bring operators back into line with the decree of 4 November, which you mentioned, without excluding evolutions inspired by the English or Spanish models – I am thinking of the reduction of the volumes and timetables for the distribution of this type of advertising. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Our next step will be to receive the Autorité de régulation professionnelle de la adverte (ARPP) and to ensure that the supervision is firm enough to ensure that these bets do not harm our youth. Member of the European Parliament, be sure that our priority is to protect our young people, to promote their education and support.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u136	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u137	My question is for the Prime Minister. Fifty degrees in Canada and Morocco, devastating floods in Germany and Belgium, drought and famine in Madagascar: these extreme weather events are multiplying, costing the lives of men and women in the affected territories. In the face of these episodes, deep phenomena of destruction of our environment are under way: melting glaciers, rising ocean levels, destruction of biodiversity and ecosystems, health crises, not to mention the dangers that could threaten the living because of the melting of permafrost. As Jean Jouzel points out, the rise of at least one degree of temperature is already irreversible. Our role is now twofold. We must first limit global warming and therefore the human impact. The law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects could and should have been up to the challenge. The text, as drawn from the Joint Joint Committee, draws a line on the ambitious proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention (CCC) and does not meet the expectations of our fellow citizens. We must then adapt to these changes and protect the most exposed. To do so, all measures must be ecological and social. On this point, the text of the Joint Joint Committee is very inadequate. The debates dissociated the fight against climate change from taking into account the social reality, that is, the end of the world at the end of the month. By accepting this dichotomy, you have given up responding to both. To combat global warming, only one solution: a change in our development model, translated into profound economic and social reforms, moving towards a more sober society, protecting the most fragile and no longer coexisting with those who make space tourism and those who still suffer from hunger. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] When will you take into account the recommendations of the IPCC, the High Climate Council and other organizations that keep alerting us about future disasters?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u138	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u139	The discussions that took place following the Citizen's Climate Convention in the context of the review of the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects were aimed precisely at not opposing ecology and social, the end of the world and the end of the month. We have tried to find the right measure between the necessary transformation of our economic model – production and consumption – and the support of households. How far to go in the bans? To what extent should we or can we ban without accompanying? We have chosen to accompany first and always, and to ban only once the solutions have been found. That is how we have found compromises that I believe honour us. In the area of thermal renovation, we have chosen to prohibit the rental of certain dwellings, but not to oblige all the owners concerned to do work. With regard to the ZFE-m, we have decided to move forward voluntarily, but by allowing the change of vehicle thanks to the conversion bonus. For vegetarian menus, we have opted for the possibility of generalizing by offering an alternative solution, which allows us to change our eating habits. For the change of model to take place, it is not a question of decreeing it, but of accompanying the French daily in this direction. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] We have not talked much about the necessary work to adapt to climate change, which, unfortunately, is already there. This legislation includes adaptation measures that we will implement without delay to deal with floods. In this regard, I would also like to associate myself with the pain of the families of the victims, in particular of the European victims. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] These adaptation measures include flood prevention programmes (PAPI); the ability to predict from Météo-France; awareness of the behaviours to adopt in the face of these difficulties. We are acting in practice, and that is how we will be able to reconcile ecology and sociality.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u140	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u141	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] For months, France has been fighting for free licenses on vaccines. For months, we have been calling for an emergency plan for hospitals. For months, we have been calling for the installation of air purifiers in public places and the implementation of a rolling company to smooth the collective effort. Since May, we have been alerting about the imminence of a fourth wave. What did you do? Almost nothing. In December, President Macron assured that the vaccine would not be mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u142	That's right, he said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u143	In April, he declared: "The health pass will never be a right of access that differentiates the French. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u144	That's right, he said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u145	Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, you in turn said: "Vaccination against coronavirus will not be compulsory either to take public transport or to enter a restaurant. Speaking of the sanitary pass, Ms. Braun-Pivet added: "I had to write black on white in the law that a restaurant, a cinema or a theatre could not demand. It is a matter of public freedoms. » Yet ten days ago, President Macron, in the dark of the health defence board's debates, denied all his promises. This succession of semi-truths and dishonest lies can only cause confusion and legitimate public concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u146	Where's your solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u147	How can we understand that vaccination is mandatory for caregivers and firefighters, but not for police officers? How can we understand that we can take a crowded RER to go to work, but not the train to enjoy his holidays? These are some of your contradictions, among many others, without convincing answers. Your health policy is a real failure. France is the last country in Western Europe to provide vaccination coverage for people at risk. How can you apply your bill, which, after the competition of all against all, organizes the terrible surveillance of all by everyone? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, beyond your vaccination policy, more than arbitrary, what is your overall health strategy for our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u148	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u149	Be kind, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u150	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mrs Sabine Rubin, one thing will never happen to you: contradict you. There is no risk that you will contradict each other, since everything that does not come from you is necessarily a failure. You blame us for contradicting us, but you didn't agree with us before, and you're not. Don't you see a paradox?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u151	To admit you're wrong is so complicated?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u152	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Do you think that it is with paradoxes that we deploy a vaccination policy and hospital care, that we protect the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u153	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u154	[[Same movements]] We make decisions that do not always please, even ourselves. It's also about taking responsibility and acting to protect the French: making the decisions that you think are most right when you take them and take them. You and the members of the group La France insoumée have been invited several times to the Prime Minister's table to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u155	We did it here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u156	You have been consulted in writing and in the oral room. Empty chair, empty paper.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u157	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u158	On the other hand, you are extremely quick to come and explain to us that nothing will work. The country does not need an "anti-Coué" method, it does not need to be told that nothing will work and that it is poorly governed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u159	But answer the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u160	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] For the past year and a half, the country has been courageous, resilient, strong and supportive. He expects his national representation to live up to his responsibilities. Almost all of it is and will still be this week. Member, it's never too late to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u161	We don't make you say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] For once, it would be good for you to contradict each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u163	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u164	You haven't answered my question about vaccination of the most vulnerable. What are you going to do to get back to the right rank?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u165	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u166	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u167	Without prejudging the next vote of the National Assembly, I wish to raise one of the difficulties related to the health pass: how can we take into account the vaccine contraindications formulated by doctors with regard to some of their patients? Since the announcement of the President of the Republic, some doctors and departmental councils of the Order of Physicians have expressed their concern. While for traditional compulsory vaccines or new professional vaccination obligations, medical certificates of vaccine contraindications take precedence over administrative requirements – when a child enters school, for example – nothing like this seems to be provided for the health pass. Our doctors are fully involved in the vaccination of our fellow citizens, and family doctors are the ones who know the health of their patients best. However, in some situations, depending on the pathologies of each one, vaccination may not be desirable, as the risk could be at least equivalent to that of covid. What about pregnant women to whom the vaccine might not be recommended? Also, it is with discernment and responsibility that our doctors can choose not to vaccinate certain patients. Will they still be able to validate their health pass? Will the medical contraindication suffice for this? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties that many people may encounter in obtaining the pass or a duplicate. What are your plans for those who don't have a smartphone, who don't have the Internet, who don't have the digital administration, and for those who are isolated, elderly or disabled? Minister, when tensions are high and our society fundamentally needs to be calmed, can you, on these specific points at least, reassure patients and their doctors, reassure our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u168	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u169	I want to give a precise answer to the important question you have just asked. I have once again seized the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products, the Advisory Council for the Vaccine Strategy chaired by Alain Fischer, and the Scientific Council to make the difference between what, as you rightly said, would not be recommended by doctors, and what is really a contraindication to the messenger RNA vaccine. I invite you to listen carefully to the list I'm going to give you. It is recorded in writing, validated, and will act as a law for immunization. With the decline that we have had for months now, for tens of millions of people vaccinated in France and billions of vaccinees on earth, the only contraindications to the messenger RNA vaccine are: what is called the PIMS syndrome – a paediatric multisystemic inflammatory – that will talk to connoisseurs, an extremely rare syndrome that has been able to affect children; reactions of the type myocarditis, pericarditis and severe hepatitis requiring hospitalization and following a first injection of messenger RNA vaccine; Allergy to what is called the PEG 2000 – it will probably not talk to you, but it is an allergy to a specific polyethylene glycol structure that is found in the vaccine, which must concern about ten people in our country. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] As you will have understood, apart from these situations that potentially affect a few hundred French, there is no contraindication to the messenger RNA vaccine. Neither pregnancy in the first semester nor pregnancy in the last trimester nor history of allergy to an antibiotic or bee bite are contraindications. Each person can be referred to his or her general practitioner, who can then refer to an allergist when there is an allergic history, with specific procedures. No one should be contraindicated to vaccination outside the grounds I have cited. It is on this basis that proper medical certificates can be recognized as establishing contraindications, and not on a mere medical or pharmaceutical opinion based on allergic or other history – Professor Fischer confirmed that the vaccine was not contraindicated during the first trimester of pregnancy. I repeat myself because all this is very important. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally if you have been tested positive for covid it is more than eleven days and less than six months, you cannot be vaccinated, so you get a sanitary pass equivalence, and if you do not have internet, you will go to your pharmacist who will print it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u170	[[Applause on all benches]] [[Same movements]] Before I give him the floor on his last question to the Government, I would like to welcome Mr. Martial Saddier's nineteen years as a Member of Parliament. Elected President of the Departmental Council of Haute-Savoie on 1 July, he is about to leave the National Assembly, and I wish him every success in his new office. Dear colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u171	On June 19, 2002, the electors of the third electoral district of Haute-Savoie had made me the honour of electing me a Member of Parliament. I succeeded Mr. Michel Meylan, M.P. for Bonneville, who will remain for me the commune where it all began. [[Smile]] Among the youngest members of the House of Commons – at the time – it was with great pride that I served for nearly twenty years as a Member of Parliament for the Republic. On four occasions, the Haute-Savoie elected me in two different constituencies, following the redistribution of 2012. I have thus worked with all, in the majority as in the opposition. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, Dem and Agir ens groups]] During these twenty years, I have defended industry and ecology. I remain convinced that we can be both the Member of Parliament for Mont-Blanc and the Member of Parliament for the cleavage industry; that we can defend both the protection and the development of our beautiful mountains; We can be the Member who promotes the reduction of payment deadlines in industry and the one who defends organic farming, bees, air quality and water quality, while being one of the two rapporteurs of the Environment Charter. Thank you to all, to the various Presidents of the National Assembly, including you, Mr.President, and also to Bernard Accoyer, a Haut-Savoyard, to the Prime Ministers, Ministers and Members of Parliament – especially to the deputies of Haute-Savoie and also to those of my political family, the same since 2002, because I have never changed since. [[Applause on all benches]] [[Applause on many benches]] Through your person, Mr President, I pay tribute to all the employees of our institution who work day and night, in the utmost discretion, during our long sittings in the Chamber and in committee. I also pay tribute to the colleagues of Members of Parliament, in particular to all those who have worked with me, to my different teams, but also to my alternates – I have had four of them, including my current alternate, Mrs Christelle Petex. I am also thinking of my family, our families, often sacrificed on the altar of the commitment of the elected representatives of this country. Elected president of the departmental council on 1st July, I will now devote my energy to the magnificent department of Haute-Savoie – at this departmental level, therefore, which has been very involved in the management of the crisis of the covid-19. [[Applause on all benches]] Prime Minister, therefore, my question is: what place do you intend to place in the future for the departments in our beautiful Republic and our beautiful country, France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u172	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u173	Mr President, allow me, in turn, to warmly congratulate you with as much sincerity as with friendship on your election as Chairman of the Departmental Council of Haute-Savoie. You have recalled that you owe it to your long-standing commitment to serving your territory. I would also like to commend your investment of almost twenty years on these benches where I have always been able to appreciate your constructive attitude. You are asking me about the future of the departments in the institutional organisation of France. For more than two centuries, they have structured the political and administrative life of our country, and they have been able to evolve in order to take the train of decentralization and to adapt to the rise of new levels – I am thinking in particular of intercommunalities and regions. Today they play a major role in the conduct of social policies, in the management of the road network or in the management of the colleges, not to mention, dear Martial, the departmental fire and rescue service. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] I am convinced that the readability of departmental competences is a strength. The French need proximity, whether it is the organization of the communities or the organization of the state. That is why the Government proposes to strengthen the powers of the departments in the so-called 4D bill – decentralization, deconcentration, differentiation and decomplexation – which we are concluding tonight in the Senate, and that it strengthens the local state at the departmental level in the prefect's figure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] The departments are strong, they have a history, skills, legitimacy. It is with these assets that they must look to the future and contribute actively to the transformation and modernization of the country. I know that I can count on you, Mr Saddier.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u174	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u175	Mr Minister of Solidarity and Health, it has been a year since you and the Prime Minister signed Ségur's agreements with the social partners and health professionals in order to recognise or rather improve – we must make it clear – the professions of the health sector, the medical and social sector. At the end of this year, I would like to relay questions, concerns, concerns, and offer you the opportunity to reassure the staff concerned. In fact, in many cases, in our ridings, for the past year, these staff have told us that equal pay should be revalued on an equal footing. The increase of 183 net euros per month must be the same for nurses or caregivers in the health sector or in the medical and social sector. The heads of institutions and structures also question themselves, because they want to make sure that the State will allow us to vote the necessary appropriations for this upgrading without the structures having to draw on their own funds. This is a matter of concern at a time when we are rightly asking each of these health care professionals to immunize themselves. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on several benches of the Dem group]] The signing of the Ségur, a year ago, took place after about 50 days of consultation. More than €8 billion is being mobilised. By my question, I want to strengthen you in the direction taken and above all to allow you to reassure and secure the professionals and agents concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u176	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u177	Mr President, today we are celebrating the first anniversary of the Segur Accords. I've been inviting our health and medical-social care providers to take stock of them this evening – at this time, I don't dare tell you how much they will be. First of all, you should know that 75% of the commitments we have made have been or are in the process of being made, and that we have even taken a step forward with the determined help and constant support of Matignon and the Prime Minister in particular. We managed to close Segur's agreements and we maintained the majority agreement with the union organizations. I spent almost two hours with them this morning: one year later, the signatory organizations maintain their signature and I would even say that the feedback was very positive. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] More than 118,000 contributions were collected through the consultation of caregivers, more than 300 meetings were held, of which about 100 were held in the ministry. As you said, an unprecedented effort is being made in favour of the hospital. In terms of valuation, not only is all the money that has been promised paid or will be paid in the final stages, but it is also budgeted – we don't take it from the hospital budget, there are no small lines at the bottom of the agreement, there is no trap, there is no wolf. In total, there are 8.8 billion wage increases financed per year for more than 1.5 million caregivers, 85 per cent of whom are women. I will never repeat it enough, but as I speak in front of Elizabeth Moreno, I cannot fail to say again that Segur of Health is the greatest reduction in pay differentials between men and women in our country's history. There have been 183 net euros, there is the upgrading of the grids being transposed in the private, lucrative and not-for-profit sector – I have asked for a majority agreement to respect the social dialogue with the trade unions. I have to add the territorial public service, blows Amélie de Montchalin, and she is right to remind him. In short, all the caregivers in this country are concerned. A final part of the revalorisation, at the same level of EUR 1 billion per year, concerns what is known as collective commitment. The aim is to encourage teams to better care, to make quality, to work together. This will allow them to benefit from a supplement of up to 100 euros net per month and per caregiver, the same amount whether one is a doctor, caregiver or nurse. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Segur of Health is all that and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to celebrate it with you in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u178	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u179	I take the remaining ten seconds to thank the minister and encourage him to remain vigilant until this matter is closed, as Members are asked in their ridings, whether by hospitals, nursing homes, medical and social institutions, or home care services. Be rigorous and vigilant! I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u180	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u181	My question, which I associate with Mrs Stella Dupont, Member of Parliament for Maine-et-Loire, is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. As Minister of the Interior, but even more so as an elected official and a citizen of the Hauts-de-France, you are aware of the tragedies that are constantly taking place on our coast. Every week, the Côte d'Opale is witness to the attempts to cross hundreds of migrants to the United Kingdom, witness to their successes and failures. Since the early 2000s, we have not found a solution to deter migrants from dreaming of the "British eldorado". Since the closure of the Sangatte reception centre in 2002, makeshift camps have followed. Migrants are housed in more than precarious or even inhumane conditions in Calais and Grande-Synthe in particular. Their camps were dismantled almost daily, and prefectural orders were taken to ban food distributions in order to avoid rixes. Despite this permanent and dangerous deterioration of their already precarious living conditions, migrants remain and continue to settle, because the hope for a better life is stronger than poverty. In the face of the forthcoming negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom on asylum and immigration policy, in the face of the more than limited effectiveness of the legislative and regulatory measures taken so far, in the face of the fatigue of residents and elected officials who are genuinely prisoners of the Touquet agreements, we must act! The aim of the presidential majority was to rebuild a system that assumed its fair share in the reception of refugees, while respecting its values, while bringing those who were not accepted back to the borders more effectively. A fair, legible and balanced device. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, what is your ministry's roadmap? The answer must be comprehensive, what are our country's demands on a European scale?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u182	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u183	I know your humanism, Madam Member, and I know that you have been present for a long time in this beautiful department of Pas-de-Calais, which has had to endure for many years, you have recalled, the consequences of its beautiful geographical position which, we know from Caesar and Napoleon, makes it the point allowing the shortest access by the sea to Great Britain – especially since today, in addition to the port and the sea, there is a tunnel that we are the only ones to have in Europe to go to our British friends. I do not go back to the difficulties experienced by local residents, elected representatives and migrants themselves for a long time, you have reminded them, nor to the fact that if they want to go to England, it is mainly because of labour legislation, you know that, but your question calls for three types of answer. First of all, there is the security of the outskirts of Pas-de-Calais, but also of the North – you have quoted Grande-Synthe – in which we ask our British friends to participate. I will have a final conference tonight with the British Minister of the Interior before I can announce with her, I hope, a new massive security to prevent migrants from running the greatest dangers while trying to cross. Every day, and again this weekend, whole families are saved by French fishermen or prevented by the gendarmes from putting their lives in danger by trying to cross the other side. But these actions alone cannot solve the migration question: 60% of the migrants who are in Pas-de-Calais come from Belgium and the Netherlands, from where they descend to the coast of Bolonnaise, to the coast of Caliasian, in order to be able to cross. That is why the second answer lies in the migration policy in Europe, and it is by holding the borders of Italy and Spain that we will indirectly manage to limit the migratory pressure in your department. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Thirdly, it is up to us, the European Union, to negotiate together and not in a bilateral framework, with Britain leaving the Union, in order to reach a new agreement that will allow balanced links in terms of immigration so that France no longer has to suffer what it has endured for the last twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u184	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u185	A little more than a year ago, when you announced the implementation of the Ségur de la santé, I called on you, Minister of Solidarity and Health, to urge you to design a plan to safeguard our health care system in line with its challenges. Because I was worried at the time that a project so ambitious would be implemented so quickly, moreover at the heart of the health crisis, at the risk of missing its target. While it is undeniable that the Ségur has achieved certain objectives, it must be noted that, as I feared, there are holes in the snowshoe. Health professionals called for strong and concrete measures: raising the wages of caregivers, improving working conditions, and ending the disastrous logic of closing beds and community hospitals. However, some of these health professionals now consider themselves to be forgotten by Ségur, including laboratory staff and hospital paramedics, who are nevertheless at the service of our patients, ensuring their comfort and assisting them in providing first aid. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In fact, hospital paramedics are not only drivers, but above all health professionals, trained to carry out emergency actions. They are indispensable in the hospital chain, yet today they are category C agents, in the same way as the staff in certain technical fields of the hospital, while they are in contact with the patients. The status of paramedics in the public service must evolve in order to upgrade their profession. That is why, Minister, we must accede to their demand for statutory reform, which includes three points: integration into the healthcare sector, in order to recognise their role with caregivers; the classification of their profession into an active category because of the hardship associated with their missions; the transition to category B, thus reflecting the salary adjustments of the Sécur de la santé agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u186	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u187	Mr President, first of all, it is essential to point out that hospital paramedics are already recognised as health professionals and, as such, listed under this name in the Code of Public Health. But since you are talking about "forgotten about Ségur", I will tell you what has been done for hospital paramedics, and then you will tell me if you continue to consider that they have been forgotten: working groups have been set up involving the DGOS, representatives of the federations of health transport companies, an association representing SMUR paramedics – a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure –, trade unions and many others, and we have established with them, in consultation, a reference of activities and skills in a logic of building blocks of skills to review the training framework. The work undertaken has led to a new definition of the profession, which highlights the dual nature of health and transport, and the provision of emergency care. That's already an achievement. It was also possible to review their training: developments in the working groups will lead to an increase of three weeks, i.e. 556 hours in total, and two weeks of clinical training, i.e. 245 hours in total; The total training will now last 801 hours, a little less than six months. However, this will remain at an infra-bac degree level, I would like to remind you of this in order to fully answer your question about their transition to category B. Member of the European Parliament, how can we say that the paramedics are the forgotten of the Ségur when they have all obtained 183 euros net monthly salary increase? I think there is not a big world that can consider itself forgotten with 2000 euros net more per year... In addition, the so-called "low wages" measure of 8 April 2021 for categories C as a result of the evolution of the SMIC, and the announcements made by Amélie de Montchalin on 6 July 2020 to upgrade the grid and careers of category C agents are added. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] No, we really haven't forgotten them: we're reviewing their training and their status, and they've seen the biggest increase in their career, even the equivalent of 20 years of cumulative increments at one time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u188	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u189	All you've said is correct, Minister... All that remains now is to include paramedics in category B.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u190	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u191	My question is to the Minister for Overseas Affairs. On 30 March last, on the occasion of the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the départementization of Mayotte, the Government invited the Mahorais to co-build a specific bill for this island facing all the challenges in order to get it out of its chronic underdevelopment. The objectives of the programme law are social equality, the strengthening of the State of Senegal, the acceleration of development, the strengthening of the departmental council and the professional, sports and cultural integration of young people. Some, including in the ranks of the local elected officials of the Republic on the move, saw it as a political exercise to prepare for the next presidential campaign while many Mahorais, believing in the word of the State, participated in the various workshops led by the prefect, the government delegate. As far as I am concerned, I have taken my full part in dialogue and consultation. Several hundred proposals have been made to the Minister for Overseas Affairs by the people and institutions involved in this reflection. The Government had pledged to provide us with the results of its arbitrations no later than 15 July... We are the 20th, Prime Minister! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Maina Sage and Mr Jean Lassalle also applaud]] My question is therefore clear, and the Mahorais want a response to it before the national representative: what measures has the Government adopted to achieve the objectives it had set itself, and will it accept the unanimous request of the Mahorais and their representatives that the problem of the social equality of this territory vis-à-vis the rest of France be resolved by order by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u192	The Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u193	The Government is preparing a bill specific to Mayotte for the development of the territory and for the daily life of its inhabitants: it will respond to many issues specific to this island. As you have said, there has been broad consultation, you and the other Mayotte parliamentarians, who have been very involved on these issues – I am thinking of MP Ramlati Ali and Senator Thani Mohamed Soilihi – there have been 20 public meetings, hundreds of citizens and associations have mobilized, and nearly 700 proposals have been made. It is therefore a success that this citizen consultation, and we must pay tribute to it. Five main axes emerge from this: strengthening certain rights to enable Mayotte to become a full department, continuing the fight against illegal immigration, modernising the departmental institution, allowing a faster and better adapted development of the territory and, finally, supporting youth and integration. On the other hand, national and local actions are already in line with these guidelines: I am thinking, for example, of the withdrawal of residence permits for foreign offenders or the fight against informal housing. You have addressed the issue of social equality and I can tell you here that the mission on social convergence will be launched in the coming days. It is the brick that we miss to finish the drafting of the future Mayotte law. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, with regard to the timetable, it is true that in June, because of the local elections and the covid, things have slowed down a little, but the Government is of course still fully mobilized, since it is the Government as a whole, since, at the request of the Prime Minister, each minister has a Mayotte law reference in his cabinet to prepare this text. The aim is to forward the bill to the Council of State in the autumn for a presentation to the Council of Ministers in the first quarter of 2022. We will of course continue the discussions until then and I can tell you that Sébastien Lecornu, the Minister of Overseas Affairs, will travel to Mayotte at the end of August to clarify to the Mahorais the main directions of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u194	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u195	Secretary of State, I regret that when we seek to meet our minister, he is never present – unfortunately this is still the case this afternoon. The second point is that you answer next to the question that has been asked to you while it is simple – which arbitrations have been decided while, on our side, we have done our part by participating in the debate. Finally, I note that every time it comes to Mayotte, the Government praises instead of going straight to the point. It's a deep regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u196	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u197	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u198	[[The meeting was suspended at 16.55 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m. with Mr David Habib in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u199	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u200	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects (No. 4302, 4336).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u201	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u202	The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, says climate and resilience, is definitely the text of all records: 217 hours of consideration in the National Assembly, a thousand amendments adopted in our Chamber and as much in the Senate, nine hours of discussions in Joint Joint Committee... The debate on the ecological transition has been bitter, it has been animated, but it has taken place, not displeased by the champions of self-victimization who have made us the eternal blow of the confiscation of the debate. These figures attest to the scope of the bill. It is a landmark text, a major text, because it brings ecology into the daily life of the French and it will profoundly change how we consume, work, feed, move or stay. I would like to begin by thanking the French of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate. For the first time in the history of the Fifth Republic, a law is directly inspired by our fellow citizens and will come into being. About 50 of the treaty proposals will be implemented through this bill. Of course, Parliament has, for some, modified or supplemented them – it is its role; but they are here and will become reality. Greening of the public order, display of an ecoscore, introduction of vegetarian choice in the canteens, creation of the ecocide: all these major advances are directly inspired by their work. This text should have brought us together. What better cause than the preservation of the planet justifies us putting aside our differences? What's more important than the climate emergency to make us all agree? We had the opportunity to go beyond the political divide to seek the general interest, but this bill has, on the contrary, revealed deep fractures. [[Ms. DelphineBathoproteste]] To the left of the Chamber are those who wanted to make this text a manual of decay for the nulls a litany of prohibitions and punishments. To listen to them, brutal decisions had to be made, even if they led to massive closures and a social breakdown without common measure. Your ecology is that of a thirty years back in terms of the development of the territories. Basically, you don't trust the French, you infantile them by trying to dictate to them what food to eat, what advertising to watch and what transportation to use.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u203	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u204	To the right of the Chamber as in the Senate, twenty years after President Jacques Chirac alarmed us on our burning house, you keep looking elsewhere, you continue to minimize the scale of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u205	They're not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u206	You are owed 239 amendments to delete articles at first reading in the Assembly, and setbacks on all matters in the Senate. Renovation of thermal colanders? All we have to do is delay it for six years! The creation of low-emission mobility areas? It can wait five more years! Vegetarian menus? Let's continue the experiment ad vitam aeternam! Reduce soil artificialization by 50%? Let's remove the objective and exclude infrastructure or economic projects! In short: ecology, yes, but not at home and not now. I would like to thank the rapporteurs Aurore Bergé, Cendra Motin, Damien Adam, Jean-Marc Zulesi, Mickaël Nogal, Lionel Causse, Célia de Lavergne and Erwan Balanant for their considerable work. We Members of the majority are betting on collective intelligence, technological change, changes in behaviour through incentives, massive support and the common will to meet this challenge. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The "climate and resilience" bill is the text of the mobilization of all French people, businesses and local and regional authorities, around a joint project, an obligation that is incumbent upon us. It gives a trajectory, objectives and deadlines. It beats the pace of a forced-walk transformation. It defines considerable means to support this necessary transition and to accompany the profound changes in society. This bill is our country's responsibility to our international partners and to future generations. So I appeal to you, the elected representatives of the Republic, to be up to the challenges by passing the climate and resilience bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u207	The Minister for Environmental Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u208	How far we have come so far, until this very precise moment when the representatives of the nation together will make a big step for our country! This day is the symbol of a bold Republic, which can face the world, take responsibility for history and act to preserve a living Earth. I was telling you in committee, I was telling you in the Chamber: the urgency is there, in our towns and villages threatened with flooding and submergence. Of course, I am thinking in this moment of our Belgian and German friends who are experiencing a real tragedy. This is the urgency, in the heats and droughts that destroy lives and crops. It is there, in every corner and corner of our personal, professional and collective lives. In the face of this challenge, greater than anything we have ever known, I see only one way to achieve it: to move forward united, welded, together. To move forward with this beautiful republican idea of fraternity, freedom and equality. That is exactly what we are doing today, as you are about to vote on a bill that is unique in the world. Unique by its method of construction: no government had ever made such a simple, fair and essential choice of trusting citizens in order to meet the ecological challenge. They came from metropolis and overseas, from all over the country; they came from large towns, small towns and rural areas; they came without being at the start of experts, knowing or even convinced; but they came with the desire to see the country progress and the certainty of working for a better future for them and their children. That is the very politics in the noble sense of the term, far from sterile polemics, small words and disappointed promises. It is this irrepressible force of commitment, change and transformation that moves peoples and nations throughout history. I want to reiterate my pride in the work of these 150 citizens, who have worked hard for nine months. They showed how citizen participation processes can contribute to reviving democracy. They fulfilled the mandate entrusted to them by the President of the Republic. And at this very moment, I think of each and every one of them. I know a lot of people are watching us. Some believe that we do not always go as far and as fast as they wish. But I want to tell them from this rostrum that every step forward, every step forward, every step forward that we are taking today is the fruit of their work. Thank them for that. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is also the fruit of your work. Deliberative democracy and representative democracy do not clash; They enrich each other. You have debated hundreds of hours, proposed thousands of amendments, had exchanges, sometimes lively, always demanding, always necessary. Thus beats the heart of our democracy. I welcome the immense quality of the debate. They reveal a simple situation, but the resonance of which is strong: there is no debate on the need to combat climate change on any side of this House. Ecology is no longer the prerogative of a party – I am delighted about it. I welcome and thank the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteur-general and the rapporteurs for the thorough work they have done and the demanding dialogue we have had. Of course, I would also like to thank my Government colleagues who followed the bench. I would also like to thank the majority groups for their support and proposals, as well as the opposition groups that have played the full part in the democratic debate by contributing, proposing and amending. I have a thought for the staff of the National Assembly and the collaborators of elected officials, as well as for the departments of my ministry and the members of my cabinet, without whom all this work would have been impossible. Finally, I welcome the outcome of the Joint Joint Committee, which is quite rare with regard to a text rich in more than 300 articles. The debate lasted nine hours: it would be necessary to check in Parliament's annals whether it had already happened that a CMP was so long – as a former Member of Parliament, I do not remember it. This is evidence of a broad awareness of the urgency of taking action and embarking society as a whole on the ecological transition. The text you are going to vote on is profoundly different from that presented by the Government. It reinforces and clarifies the initial ambitions that were its own and involves many advances, which are the fruit of your work. You can be proud of that. From the heart of the Republic, we bring the country into the new century. It is up to you to engrave in the marble of the law the means that France will have to be sovereign, resilient and able to meet the challenges ahead; It is up to you to establish a link between the proposals of 150 citizens and the daily lives of 67 million French and French. Our generation no longer has the excuse of ignorance to condone inaction. Each and every part of our existence has a challenge, so we must fight the battle of transformation in all fields: economy, work, housing, food, displacement. With this bill, there is another world, where the air we breathe will be purer, where nature and humanity will reconcile, where the ecological transition will ease many of the evils that plague the country. Basically, it's quite simple: this world can only exist if we face it together, with the taste of the shared future. No matter where we live, where we work, where we come from, let's be together! In the face of peril, there can be no distinctions, divisions, tears. There is only one country, only one nation, that must invent its way. Today we trace it by committing ourselves to a real cultural shift. Tomorrow, ecology will be in all classes of the schools of the Republic, to train the ecocitizens of the new century. Each will have the means to be a driver of change, by adopting responsible and virtuous consumption, through a signpost that will indicate the effects of products on climate, biodiversity and the consumption of natural resources. In this country, the promotion of fossil fuels will disappear and, thanks to parliamentary work, eco-money laundering will be severely punished for what it is: a deception of the consumer. Responsible consumption means that we do not have countless packagings that coat everyday products, consume huge amounts of material and often pollute the environment. This text sets the course for a marked improvement, with the generalization of bulk sales in large areas. All these aspects give Title I of the bill that you will vote in a few moments its strength and scope. I thank rapporteur Aurore Bergé and the majority groups for the compromises made on the whole. This text is not just about engaging a great – and necessary – cultural shift. There are major problems that need to be addressed here and now: we no longer have the means to wait. To achieve this, we must first transform our economy. That is the spirit of Title II, for which you were rapporteur, dear Cendra Motin. Public procurement will include environmental and social clauses; business bodies will have the means to take sustainable development into account. Finally, Title II will provide France with the legal framework necessary to adapt mining to our time: we can no longer allow dated projects, with risky or even harmful consequences. The original text intended to lead this reform mainly by ordinances, but the work of Damien Adam, rapporteur for articles 20 and 21, has already translated much of it into law. The text therefore reformed the mining code and gave the Government the legal means to refuse to grant a title for environmental reasons, thanks to amendments defended by the majority groups. It's about time! You and I know that we will achieve our objectives only with the confidence of the territories; This title therefore declines our multi-year energy programming at the regional level. This is also a major step forward for ecology. Addressing the country's problems and building a large ecological and solidarity republic means having the courage to take cutting-edge action. The human balance of air pollution in our country can only encourage action. Every year, 40,000 people die prematurely of the consequences of polluted air. How many suffer from chronic diseases that come to destroy the promises of a peaceful life? These are deeds, irreplaceable losses, broken families, often among our most modest fellow citizens. We can spare the suffering of women and men. It is absolutely essential to assume our responsibilities and to resolve this health, social and ecological emergency. With this bill, agglomerations with more than 150,000 inhabitants will tomorrow have a low-emission mobility area (ZFE-m). These will be as many respiratory diseases avoided, as many lives saved. The text also provides for the end of sales of thermal vehicles in less than 20 years for new heavy goods vehicles, buses and coaches. We are bringing almost all of this country's rolling vehicles into transition. This goes hand in hand with the acceleration of the greening trajectory of the fleets of companies, the communities and the State, thanks to the rapporteur Jean-Marc Zulesi. To act responsibly and take cutting-edge measures, you also need to know how to turn the page of certain practices: for example, take the plane while you can take the train to make a journey that lasts less than two and a half hours, which is an aberration. To be at the forefront is to do differently, to do better, to show common sense. This is the spirit of Title III. Building malls in the middle of the fields is a heresy. To squeeze nature under concrete is to condemn us. These common-sense reflections lead us to divide by two the speed of artificialisation of the soil in less than ten years, because ecology is born and lives in the territories, because we can no longer believe that cities can extend to infinity without drowning the social bond, nor locking the French in dependence on the car, nor ravaging the biodiversity we need so much to survive. Thanks to the objective of dividing by two the artificialisation of the soil and thanks to the planning in the town planning documents, we can reverse the trend and finally let nature breathe. Many of you wanted to regulate the building of warehouses better. The rapporteur Lionel Causse did so; he proceeded intelligently, without falling into the caricature, by better defining the places of settlement in the town planning documents. Common sense also means tackling a terrible social and climate injustice, on which leaders have closed their eyes for far too long. For decades, French choke in summer and freeze in winter; This is the case today with 2 million households. It is a shame for our country – I weigh my words by saying it. The fight against thermal colanders is indispensable to build the ecological and solidarity republic of which I am talking. Parliamentary work has made it possible, in particular thanks to the rapporteur Mickaël Nogal, to define a clear and precise path towards the prohibition of their leasing – a guarantee of our success. Beyond the advertising and marketing effects, trust will depend on the readability, clarity and predictability of measures that will lead to lasting transformations. Our fellow citizens can also have confidence in the support of the state. It is here, in this assembly, that the accompanying Renov', who will help the French to carry out their work, were born, from the beginning of the project to the last nail laid. The loan advance transfer is another step forward in this House – I know how heavy this work is in the small budget of thousands of owners. The debates in the Assembly have also laid down in the marble of the law the principle of a financial commitment by the State to guarantee a low-paid remainder, especially for the most modest households. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that you are about to vote on far exceeds our responsibilities here, both to you and to me. Indeed, it does not commit a balance of power with the country, it seals a pact of trust, which respects the balance between the necessary part of constraint and the imperative freedom of initiative. I know from experience: that's what works. With title V, the rapporteur Célia de Lavergne, each child will be offered a weekly vegetarian menu in her school. At the beginning of the quinquennium, you had voted to experiment with this measure – I had also voted for it. You're generalizing it today, because it's a success. Evidence by example is part of our method of government. It is a matter of experimenting in order to generalize in the best conditions – because we do not rush the transition, we build it stone after stone. Rather than imposing a tax on nitrogen fertilizers whose effectiveness is not measured, the choice of confidence must be made, i.e., to give farmers a reduction objective and to provide for the tax only if they fail to achieve it. Trust, accompaniment, control: this is also our method. Title V is a milestone towards an era of agroecology, beneficial to territories and human health. Projecting beyond our mandates also means giving the country a right that is in line with its time. Each era sets out rules to combat what it considers unacceptable, criminal, dangerous. For millions and millions of French, as for me, it is intolerable to pollute and destroy nature with full knowledge. Under Title VI, justice on behalf of the French people will have the means to severely condemn polluters. Parliamentary work has strengthened the legal robustness of this passage, notably thanks to rapporteur Erwan Balanant. Having rules of our day is also a matter of ensuring that we will stay on course in the long run. The Republic is dying of great laws unrelated to real life: they exist only in the minds of those who write them and citizens never see the effects on the ground. With the political maturity of an old democracy that has so much to offer, we give ourselves the means to ensure that our decisions are effective. Title VII promises more than a transformation of our climate governance. Madam President, dear Laurence, rapporteur, dear Jean-René, we owe it to you. It is the way to ensure the long-term sustainability of the transformation, to ensure that this text will change what needs to be done on the ground. This is a step forward that your House can be particularly proud of. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are writing a new page on the ecological republic. It was written by women and men, humble citizens and parliamentarians, for each of our territories. It does not put an end to our efforts to promote the ecological transition: it will continue, in order to meet all the challenges we face. It complements the pages that we have already written and those that we continue to write, but it is essential, because the foundations of the ecological republic for all and by all are laid there. It's the meaning of our history and it's our responsibility. I know you will answer present, as always, with strength and passion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u209	Well, then, the world will change with this law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u210	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie, Chairman of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u211	We have finally reached the end of several months of parliamentary work. The climate and resilience bill has experienced an unprecedented and unstandardized journey. First, it was drawn up on the basis of the work of a convention of 150 citizens to formulate proposals to combat global warming – a key issue –, in particular by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, while respecting a goal of cohesion and social justice. This text aims, we must not fear to repeat, to complement and deepen an arsenal of measures adopted since 2017, thanks to the EGALIM law – the law for the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet – the ELAN law – the law on housing, planning and digital development – the law on energy and climate, the law on combating waste and the circular economy, or the law on the orientation of mobility, in order to speed up the ecological transition and to accompany the necessary decarbonization of our economy. It is an out-of-standard text, as evidenced by the extent of the parliamentary work it has generated, both in the National Assembly, which has considered almost 9,000 amendments, and in the Senate, with more than 4,200 amendments discussed: in the end, more than 2,000 amendments have been adopted to enrich it. While our discussions have not been free of differences, I welcome the colossal work done by all the rapporteurs, as well as the spirit of responsibility that guided the work of the Joint Joint Committee, which, after nine hours of discussion, led to a common text, without denying anything of the original ambition, quite the contrary. As the rapporteur has just pointed out, our work has allowed us to deepen all the topics and strengthen the ambition of the text, thanks to important advances: information for consumers on the carbon footprint of products and services, greening public order, promoting more virtuous mobility, energy renewal, sustainable and quality food, agro-ecological transition, promotion of renewable energy, combating soil artificialisation or air pollution, adaptation to climate change, environmental justice. On all these issues, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, we have been able to make proposals, thus contributing to a significant increase in the bill, as evidenced by the evolution of the number of articles, from 69 to more than 300. We can collectively be proud of the work accomplished: we have been able to overcome the divisions and differences in order to arrive at a pragmatic and ambitious text, which will enable us to implement a just and sustainable transition for all our citizens. As we know, there is an urgent need to address the dramatic consequences of global warming. It is therefore imperative to implement all the provisions of this text as soon as possible in order to be able to measure their effects and to adjust them as much as necessary in order to achieve the new European target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. As such, we have decided to complement the climate assessment text of our public policies and to follow up on the commitments made by communities and the most emitting sectors, as recommended by the High Climate Council, which is a real necessity. This will strengthen the HCC's evaluation role, which will have to be accompanied by a strengthening of its capacity. With this bill, known as climate and resilience, France once again confirms its leading role, at European level, in the fight against climate change: it will be the first country in the European Union to ban the rental of thermal colanders from 2028, the first country to go so far in terms of environmental signage and advertising supervision for the most polluting products, one of the only countries to abolish short-haul flights when there is a possibility of the same journey by train, etc. While environmental and climate policies require consensus with our citizens, the same is true at European and international level. We know that environmental challenges require a collective, coordinated and supportive response. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The French Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2022 will make it possible to go even further in a number of fundamental issues. France will be on the front line to defend the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, i.e. an environmental anti-dumping mechanism to implement the European Green Deal – the Green Pact for Europe – and the European climate law: more than fifty European legislations will be created or improved by the end of 2022. Until then, we must continue to scale up our action at all levels and to enhance our objectives. This is our collective challenge for the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u212	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u213	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I observe that this motion of rejection in advance provokes an agitation of people with whom we also have friendly relations of trust, sometimes even political cooperation: pay attention to the end of my remarks, which will explain why such a motion is being made. In the preamble, I would also like to stress, with unfeigned courtesy, the quality of the debates that we have had with the rapporteurs and ministers, despite sometimes lively and even very lively dialogues, Madam Minister, but always in a great way, and I thank you for that, because they honour our assembly. The Socialist and Related Group and I, since my question to the Government last week had the same object, consider that it would really be in bad faith to consider this bill as nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u214	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u215	But one would have to be intellectually dishonest to think that he is up to the stakes he is supposed to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u216	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u217	There are "ahs" on all sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u218	One could say: "at the same time"...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u219	The bad faith would be not to recognize that, for the first time since the SRU law – urban solidarity and renewal – around the delegate minister Emmanuelle Wargon, a device, which some consider too long and too constructive, puts an end, in the end, to the artificialisation of the soil, with an effectivity and unprecedented means. It would have to be in bad faith to consider that the obligations relating to the posting on products or the new conditions to which public procurement is subject are nothing at all. We welcome such provisions, as well as a dozen others I have not mentioned: we have not only welcomed them, but also amended them and voted in their favour. The Socialists took their full part in this debate by tabling 645 amendments, not dictated by lobbies or by various pleas, but by a long work. Moreover, many of the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention included amendments that we had defended over the last four years, which had received only contempt from the majority and the Government, but which, coming from the citizens, were suddenly considered relevant! For the sake of consistency, we have supported, amended and strengthened them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u221	We are particularly proud, when some 30 of our amendments have made it possible to expand the provisions of this text, to be at the origin of the one which extends public purchasing to the public service delegation, which allows for a triple of the volume concerned and is a lever for the French economic sectors which are likely to obtain public service contracts and delegations: we have increased from EUR 40 billion to EUR 120 billion, which is anything but insignificant. As I said recently with humour, the Socialists had not managed to pass an amendment with an impact of 80 billion euros for a long time! He had received the blessing of the co-rapporteur, with whom we had worked together. Thus, we have sometimes consolidated this bill by mutual agreement. The whole misunderstanding relates to the scope of this very narrow text, since only certain provisions of the Citizens' Convention have been retained. I am not referring to a desire for censorship or ambiguity, unlike some of my colleagues: it is not a question of questioning the National Assembly, since it is the Government that has decided on the original scope of the text, depriving us of considering essential levers and means of action and of an extremely important debate. So we debated within a narrow perimeter,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u222	All the topics have been discussed!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u223	...which had the effect of artificially inflating communication on subjects that did not always deserve it, with what I would call a streetlight effect, leading us to debate the points in the light zone, forgetting other subjects remaining in the dark. During this work, we were loyal debaters and proposers, particularly on food, transport and habitat issues. It would have to be in bad faith to consider that what has been done is nothing: I know that you will answer us, as you have said several times during the questions to the Government this afternoon, that a proportion equivalent to 30 per cent of the recovery plan has a green and environmental dimension, which is undeniable. Of course, I do not blame you for being intellectually dishonest, even if there is an initial defect in the construction of this bill. If you have, Madam Minister, paid tribute to the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, the reciprocal is not true. Indeed, at the end of the first reading, the score assigned to this text was 2.5 out of 10, and I do not think that it would evolve enormously – I imagine it would go up to 2.6 or 2.4 at the most – if the 150 citizens who engaged in an unprecedented and very interesting exercise of participatory democracy and popular and civic education were to undertake a new evaluation at the end of the CMP. It is not possible to praise them without receiving the mark they have given to this government project, which, even if amended, is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u224	They're all politicized, with opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u225	Intellectual honesty consists not only of hearing the truth set out by the citizens, but above all, in a modern democracy, of hearing what the science and the committees you have partly helped to create, which I welcome, in particular the High Climate Council, whose opinion has no ambiguity as to the inadequacies of the scope of this text. The postponement to 2026, 2028 or 2032 of provisions which could, without generating economic and social consequences, have been implemented earlier if they had not encountered the resistance of certain economic sectors, shows a tendency towards procrastination and lightness, as well as a lack of scope of measures. If we want to be intellectually honest, we need to hear the IPCC's warnings – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – which, in the first draft of its report, tells us that beyond a 1.5 degree warming Celsius, some consequences will be irreversible, and we are going straight ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u226	This is not the IPCC's first report!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u227	We must not be blind and deaf to the decision of the courts which, following the complaint of the commune of Grande-Synthe for climate inaction, direct the State to take measures to adapt to climate risk, since the current provisions do not allow it. All this could be put into perspective if the European Commission had not decided – and I know that France has contributed ideologically – to increase the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, to at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990: this text is not consistent with this new target. Without being affected, how to remain indifferent to the dramatic heat episodes that have struck North America, to the droughts in Spain, to the famine that affects Madagascar, and, I say with great emotion as Lorrain, close to our European neighbours in Germany, Luxembourg and Belgium, to the tragedies that have beset these countries in recent days. Weather warnings, science alerts, incredible progress by the European Commission: all this should have prompted us, ladies and gentlemen, to continue the debate and to step up our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u228	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u229	[[Mr. Guillaume Garot applauds]] The purpose of this motion to reject this bill is to ensure that the debate on this bill should not be stopped, at the expense of a right-wing agreement, but, on the contrary, continue and amplify it. It was necessary to speed up and open the scope of this text, the last possibility of a climate law in this legislature. We are part of the United Nations decade for action and for results for sustainable development, a capital decade, where every month and every year counts. We had the opportunity, this summer, until 31 July, and again in September, to talk to us, to listen to us, to widen the perimeters, to go further and faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u230	And lose six months!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u231	We would not have lost six months, since the provisions could in part have been implemented without delay, which you know very well, and by September we could have had a truly ambitious law... That is the very meaning of our motion to reject beforehand. If time had not been short, the Socialist Members would have liked, like other left-wing forces, even certain forces of the majority and, on certain provisions, with the support of members of the Republicans or centrists group, to address systemic and crucial issues such as the social conditionality of public procurement or the posting on certain products, not only of an environmental nature, but also of a social nature: in this regard, we are, as you know, committed to combating child labour in the textile sector. We could have embarked on the reform of the institutions to organise the fantastic transition of trades which will happen, so that the fear of industrial conversions will turn into an industrial and employment epic, like the transformation of agriculture in the 1950s, and to introduce transitional provisions for trades, as we proposed. We could have looked more carefully at the proposals of our colleagues Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout on the building sector. We would have kept the VAT rate at the level expected for alternative transport. We would have really adopted the crime of ecocide. We would have embarked on a major research and development plan in our industry to encourage the acceleration of the search for solutions. We would have introduced a genuine eco-conditionality and social conditionality of business aid into the recovery plan. We would have created, like our British friends, a real authority to assess and control what we voted in the bill. In short, we would have gone faster and further. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. François Michel-Lambert also applauds]] That is the meaning of this motion of rejection: the refusal of a compromise to the discount, of a compromise to the right which, today, deprives us of a crucial debate at a time when we must change speed, speed up and make an ecological transition a social transition based on justice. The question that justifies this motion for rejection is the one I put last week in the House: what is the human cost of our inaction today?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u232	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the La République en marche and Socialistes and related groups of the party concerned of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u233	Your speech surprises me for two reasons. First of all, you praised in good faith the collective work done by all parliamentarians to arrive at this text. Then, at once, you consider that the CMP, which, however, continues this effort of collective work, constitutes a catastrophe by proposing a text that is not up to date. I see a strong contradiction. Secondly, on the substance, I would like you to give me a single example of a departure from the text of the CMP in relation to the text we have adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u234	I can give you ten!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u235	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Guillaume Garot and Dominique Potier protest]] The work we have done with all the rapporteurs is to give more scope to the text that we voted for. I challenge you to find one example of a step backwards. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Don't tell me this is a compromise with the right, as if it were an insult – the Members present will appreciate it. We have done a job that honours bicameralism. While remaining firm on the positions we announced, we sought to improve the text through the proposals of senators who are all in the same direction: a greater ambition on the energy transition and no setbacks from the text we voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u236	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u237	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u238	What the High Council for Climate and the Council of State are asking us to act quickly...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u239	And strong!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u240	The Council of State gives us nine months. We can continue to procrastinate, to say that we have all the time we want; For my part, I have more than a hundred implementing decrees to draft, which can only be published once the law has been passed and promulgated. They will be written for a long time; We have already started preparing them, of course, but taking time is absolutely necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Then, in any case, no one will be satisfied with this text. Some are already beginning to tell me about some measure: "But you don't think about it, how will we apply it? Moreover, I hope that anyone who thinks that the text does not go far enough will be at my side to help me face all those who will tell me that this law is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u241	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u242	I am thinking, as a random example, of areas with low mobility emissions, for which we are introducing numerous accompanying measures, which have been improved thanks to the work that you have done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the IDU-I group]] I am thinking of all the necessary and crucial measures taken within the framework of the energy mix to develop renewable energies. I hope to see you all by my side in the territories to convince everyone to get around the table, in order to find the best places to install wind turbines because they will have to be installed both in the land and at sea. You'll have to put up photovoltaic panels and do methanization. This is concrete, contrary to the finding that a percentage is missing here or there. Compared to the European texts presented on 14 July, the work we are doing here is complementary. As you know, negotiations will be held between the Commission and the other European states and will take time. Indeed, it will be long and difficult for everyone to agree. Meanwhile, will we wait? No, we are moving forward and will continue to implement other measures as we move forward. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The fight against climate change, the ecological transition, is a marathon. This means you run at the speed at which you can run; If you run too fast, at some point, you fall and you don't move any further. We know that the 21st kilometre will be harder, but once this course is over, it will be better. This marathon, we either run it by accepting its difficulties, or we stay on the starting line and wait to see. Well, we decided to run him. It is for this reason that this motion for prior rejection does not make sense, but it is up to the Members to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u243	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is open to Mr François-Michel Lambert.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u244	In the preamble, I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Socialist and Related Group for proposing that we proceed from the top of the bill that will not meet the climate challenge. Madam Minister, you explained this morning to the micro de France Info that the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects would bring ecology into the daily lives of the French. Today, the challenge is no longer to convince our fellow citizens,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u245	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u246	... very much aware of the dangers of climate change, but of changing our economic model. In this regard, your text is largely insufficient and merely takes a few measures that influence the margin on consumption behaviour without even mentioning the modes of production. I say this from the outset: the ban on heated terraces and the publicity on fossil fuels will not be enough to face the challenges of tomorrow. The sixth mass extinction, the deadly deluges, the extreme heats require us to carry our ecological ambition higher, stronger. The European Commission, which presented on 14 July a legislative package providing for an ambitious package of measures to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 – i.e. within eight and a half years – invites us to do better. On the other hand, it cannot be acceptable to transform the mining code by simple ordinances – you know very well for having worked on this subject for a long time. That is why the majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group, aware that the great ecological text of the quinquennium is already ringardized by the Green Pact for Europe, will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The only way to keep up with the stakes is to continue the debates, as Dominique Potier said very well. The urgency does not oblige us to rush, the urgency obliges us to co-construction which is terribly lacking. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Dominique Potier also applauds]] Colleagues, you all have the opportunity to give the bill back its strength, so that we do not delay the right decisions that we must implement until 2023 – or even later.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u247	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u248	This previous rejection motion is quite surreal. The debates lasted a hundred hours in the Senate, more than four hundred hours in the National Assembly; 1002 amendments were adopted in the National Assembly, 1172 in the Senate. The text, which initially consisted of 65 articles, included 376 articles, 138 of which were co-edited with senators. We create the crime of greenwashing; we set up a much more responsible public order; we install, following a sustained schedule, the ZFE-m, which are expected, you know, especially for health reasons; we accelerate the greening of car parks; we accompany households, especially after an agreement with senators on the social subject, by introducing an experiment on the zero-rate loan – PTZ – for the automobile; We also accompany companies by giving them not only visibility, with a roadmap, but also the financial ability to equip themselves with cleaner vehicles thanks to over-amortization. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore do not understand the purpose of this motion, unless it is simply a politician. If I sum up: for you, the climate emergency is to wait. But we refuse, we take responsibility, we act. Of course, this law may not be the alpha and the omega, it will have to be taken over. But, at some point, there is an urgent need to act. That is why we will strongly reject your motion to reject it in advance, because today neither the climate nor the environment are waiting. We have to go, we vote for a text that allows us to act. I'll always say, if you'll allow me: a walker will always go further than an intellectual who's sitting there blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u249	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u250	My dear colleagues Dominique Potier and François-Michel Lambert, I am sorry that I do not share your opinion. We agree on a lot of things...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u251	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u252	...but here, frankly, I do not understand your attitude and this motion of rejection. Indeed, whatever the law – I insist – we would have voted on the climate, it would have seemed imperfect to some, because we would never have gone to the end of what should be done and we must also take social acceptance into account – you saw with the yellow vests what the fuel tax cost us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u253	It's a matter of justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u254	The mission of citizens was to make the fight against climate change socially acceptable. As my colleague Vincent Thiébaut pointed out, every hour we spent in this chamber, as well as senators in the Senate, was intended only to make the bill as socially acceptable as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I will only mention one sector – I will not talk about all the others, because I do not control them all – that of housing, which is the subject of great progress in relation to what we have done so far. For decades, we have spent billions and billions inefficiently. We will finally allow the most precarious of us to renovate their house. Mr Potier, just this measure, which will serve the climate cause, is worth voting for. Many other provisions are very positive. We will therefore vote against your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u255	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u256	Minister, we are coming faster than expected at the end of the bill's review. As has been said, the text of the CMP is a halt to both democratic co-construction and ecological ambitions. First of all, the democratic debate has been undermined. The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects had to reflect part of the proposals of the Citizens' Convention on Climate, which was "without filters", as the President of the Republic had committed himself to doing. On June 29, 2020, however, he had already claimed three jokers, the first renunciations which unfortunately will not be the last. Second, the bill was severely judged by the Citizen Climate Convention, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and even the High Climate Council. Despite the work of the Socialist and Related Group, which tabled several hundred amendments, the text was far from sufficient at the end of the first reading. Finally, after the passage to the Senate and the agreement in CMP, it seems to us today too modest in relation to the issues we face. The bill could have been a first, that of better legislative construction through democratic dialogue between citizens and elected officials. Unfortunately, this ends with the refoulement of many civil society proposals, a shortened parliamentary debate, a mistake about the ecological measures to be taken and the absence of a debate on a new essential development model. Our colleague Dominique Potier referred to the progress we have made, but also to the overall shortcomings of the text of the CMP. While the Council of State has just called the Government into question, the High Climate Council continues to sound alarms and our fellow citizens are mobilizing, parliamentary majorities stop at half-measures. As Jürgen Dahl said: "To place one's hope in the progressive addition of small improvements is to lie to oneself as long as daily destruction continues." Thus, in the face of the policy of small steps to respond to the ecological and social emergency, we need, from now on, the great climate law expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u257	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u258	Dear colleague Potier, by listening carefully, I felt sorry for you. However, it has been difficult for you to say the good of the bill, while proposing to reject it, to finally say that it does not go far enough... I am surprised that you have never voted for a text in this House, because we know that all laws are imperfect. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] When you were in the majority, you defended the concept of agroecology. The question of farmers' remuneration was already raised at the time. You have not solved it: it took another law to tackle this problem. The same applies to ecology and the issue of climate change. I was already a Member of Parliament during Jacques Chirac's speech in Johannesburg. I then took part in the Grenelle de l'Environnement, before being your opponent in the debates on certain texts proposed by the left. Today, I support the approach of this majority, which adds one more stone to the building. The main thing is to stay on course and never stop moving forward. You mentioned Germany. For my part, I am a member of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, which gives me the opportunity to discuss with my German colleagues in broken sticks. When I tell them how much we have already managed to reduce our production of plastic waste, I see that they are admiring. While we have made the determined decision to ban the thermal car, this issue is controversial in them. And as we reduce the number of domestic flights in France, I know, to watch German television during the current election campaign, that this issue is also a source of controversy in their country. I am also betting that, after the climatic events you have mentioned and the deaths they have caused, the issue of the artificialisation of the soil, which was not relevant, will be the priority of the next German government. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] This bill has the merit of moving forward, on the basis of the knowledge we currently have, of the injunction of the Citizen's Convention for the Climate and of a will – shared in this House – to prepare a better future for future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u259	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u260	We are still very far from the big evening, and we are even more so from the conclusions of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate! But we are not here to resume the debate, nor to discuss the substance again. I regret, Madam Minister, that you have reopened the debate on wind turbines, of which you know very well that it is controversial in our country. The text before us today has been enriched by the Senate and has been the subject of a joint concluding committee. You wish, Mr.Potier, that it be reviewed – and therefore that we vote on a motion to reject it beforehand. For my part, I believe that when a text is not fully successful, when it is inconclusive, it is better to finish it. It seems to me better to open the general discussion and to take a decision on this text, bearing in mind that it is certain that these issues will return to the centre of the debate in the coming months. There is much to bet that the majority elected in 2022 will have to take over all the elements contained in the bill in order, this time, to really work.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u261	She'll do it, count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u262	In this spirit, we will therefore reject the motion to reject the text as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u263	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u264	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 177 Number of votes cast 177 Absolute majority 89 For adoption 21 Against 156
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u265	In the general debate, Mr François-Michel Lambert spoke. May I remind you that each speaker has five minutes and that I will be attentive to respect for the allotted time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u266	At the very moment when our German and Belgian neighbours are struck by floods of a rare magnitude, with dramatic and immeasurable consequences, where our Spanish and Canadian friends are suffering temperatures that no living being has ever known in these latitudes, and while French farmers are still struggling to recover from the black frosts of last April, which have cast a real veil of death on a significant part of our agriculture, the bill "climate and resilience" is being sent in catini. Published yesterday by a collective, a study – the latest – announces that biodiversity has declined by 20% over the last 30 years in the Mediterranean and, worse yet, by 51% – yes, 51% – i.e. half – for marine species. Taking advantage of the summer, the Government, with the full support of the majority, passed the "climate and resilience" law amputated with all ambition. You would have shown courage in continuing the debate – this was the subject of the motion for the prior rejection of our socialist colleagues – thus allowing mutual enrichment and the expression of a shared conviction with our fellow citizens and local elected officials, who are indeed the great forgotten of this text. As we know, we will no longer be able to act until 2023, or even 2024, to raise our right to the level of ecological issues and launch another development model. We can say this: not yet promulgated, the "climate and resilience" law is already outdated in the face of global warming, the scarcity of natural resources, pollution – starting with plastic, which kills our seas – and the collapse of biodiversity. I repeat, this law is out of date! Even before the bill was drafted, it lacked ambition. We had alerted you during the debates: while the European Commission was preparing a new target of 55% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which has since been adopted, you were refusing the debate and staying on a target of 40%. Everything is on the record, everyone will be able to check it: you have not made any arguments. But the reality of the facts, the deaths and the disasters push us to go further, faster, stronger! On 14 July, as we celebrated our Feast of Fraternity, the European Union began its revolution. Fraternity is the defense of a common good, of a single planet, the survival of the human species. We are not in this text and I am very concerned at the time when France is about to take over the presidency of the Council of the European Union in January 2022. While we should pull the whole European Union up on the climate emergency, we will probably do the opposite, being still late. The "climate and resilience" law is devoid of overall logic, of a global view. Many subjects are only touched on there. For example, it is timid on the issue of forests, when it is a major carbon sink. The European Commission wants to use forests and peatlands to absorb about 7% of greenhouse gas emissions. Your reflection on this subject is at best incomplete in view of the decline in the number of NFB officers – the National Forestry Board –, which is contrary to any logic of responsibility. The forest, for you, is the 800,000 tons of wood that feed Gardanne's mega-central every year to generate electricity, even though 500 scientists from around the world are warning us about this ecological aberration. That's the reality! Another strange thing about this text is that while the European Commission wants the end of thermal cars in 2035, we set the deadline at 2040. In the ZFEs, very heavy cars, falsely electric thanks to hybridization – a kind of ecological sex cache – of their power and dementia, will be able to continue rolling while they emit a lot of fine particles. For example, no action is being taken on fine particles due to tyres and brakes – the debate has been avoided. In some cities, however, they are the main source of this deadly pollution, which causes the premature death of 100,000 people a year in France. That is one of the consequences of your decision not to continue the debate on this bill. You are presenting ecoscore and environmental signage to us as revolutionary, but as the rapporteur-general himself admitted in the House, ecoscore will not take into account the impact of the transport of products. A package of cookies will therefore have the same score, whether it is sold 10 kilometres from the manufacturing plant or overseas. How can we create more distrust among our fellow citizens? The original problem with your bill is that it has no vision of demographics and its implications for land use planning. It never addresses the question of the mobility constraints of people and the disordered mobility of goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u267	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u268	You remain in the illusion of all TGV, at all nuclear, at all technological that would save us from cataclysm! Let us remember that simply reducing people's mobility by 25% would reduce greenhouse gas emissions as much: it is the city's 15 hour theory, applied around the world, but ignored in the bill. The simple fact of implementing the "France Logistics 2025" strategy, presented in 2016 by Minister Macron before being liquidated in 2018 by President Macron, would have made it possible to gain 60 billion euros in economic performance and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by stopping hauling goods in all directions. For lack of time, I will not talk about the crime of ecocide, which is not up to the stakes and which could lead to many relocations. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Gérard Leseul also applauds]] I will conclude by saying that a majority of the members of the Libertés et Territoires group will vote against this text, while others will abstain – a very critical abstention, be aware of it. The whole group calls for the responsibility of returning without delay with a text that meets the environmental emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u269	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u270	It is the French elected representative who addresses you, Madam Minister, at the same time as the Communist elected one, of course, referring more particularly to the ZFE, which concern the metropolis of Rouen. Indeed, I was deeply interested in the report by our two colleagues from the LaREM and LR groups that you mentioned earlier. It contains recommendations that should be found in the implementing decrees of the bill and in the draft finance bill for 2022. I'll mention a few of them. With regard to information and communication, the report recommends that consultation of residents – users – with a view to establishing an EFA be increased to six months. The report also refers to the mandatory introduction of information windows and user services for metropolitan areas. He talks about the establishment of a national assessment council, to see what the ZFEs are producing in practice on the ground. Even more interesting is the report's recommendation to double – I say double – subsidies and conversion premiums to provide a clean car, and to extend aid to individuals to small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly those with fewer than four professional vehicles. A total of nine recommendations are made with regard to the financial resources that should be mobilised. As regards the functioning of the EFAs, recommendations are also made with regard to derogations, preventive warning periods, as well as, of course, alternatives to individual mobility, such as public transport. Will the contents of this report, published fifteen days ago, be found in your decrees and in the finance law for 2022? I expect an answer from you, because if only on this point, I doubt the applicability of what was adopted in this text – and I did not vote on the Metropolitan Council of Rouen fifteen days ago. When we read such a report, there is indeed something to worry about on this very sensitive subject for the French: some of us have recalled it and everyone knows it. I would add the economic stake: elected from Rouennais whose constituency is close to the Renault plant in Cléon and not far from Sandouville, I would like to point out that the switch from thermal to electric could potentially destroy 100,000 jobs by 2035 according to the Observatory of Metallurgy. Yes, 100,000 jobs out of the 190,000 in this sector of manufacturers and equipment manufacturers! If we leave the key to the transition to the automobile construction and equipment lobby and do not listen to employees, the bill may be salty. I had already pointed out to you that your bill was empty on the crucial issue of employment; There is nothing more in the final version. You are unaware of the contribution of employees and their trade union organisations to the ecological transition and to the challenges of employment. In Germany, the large IG Metall union proposes to draw up 500 million euros of private resources to finance an investment fund that can enter into the capital of SMEs producing parts for electric motors, which are therefore threatened to disappear, in order to support employment. This is an interesting idea – I could quote others – to which attention should be paid! I am also putting the issue of infrastructure on the table, Madam Minister, because I am an elected official: in addition to your legislative programme, you have been maintaining the Rouen bypass project for several years, which is estimated to cost EUR 1 billion for 30 kilometres of licensed and paid motorway. The elected representatives of Rouen's metropolis now reject this project, which would artificialize 200 hectares of soil and pollute neighbourhoods where the working classes reside – dangerous classes! – those that do not count for certain people residing in downtown Rouen. However, your ministry retains this pre-Ediluvian project. I will not go back to the question I asked you this afternoon about your procrastination on rail freight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u271	We must conclude, Mr. Wulfranc.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u272	This immature law will create a social divide that forces the communist elected official and makes me say to you: "We will not vote for this text! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u273	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u274	It is a great day for ecology and for our democracy. France is further strengthening its arsenal against climate change, following an unprecedented democratic process to achieve our national objectives and collectively fight against disruption already in the work of the climate. After months of parliamentary work, more than 1000 amendments adopted in the National Assembly and nine long hours of joint committee work, we are leading to a strong and ambitious text for the environment. We have been uncompromising about the high level of environmental requirements of the text and the reintroduction of the measures necessary to make the country's transition. Under no circumstances can this legislation be regarded as a discount law. As such, I commend the remarkable work of our rapporteurs who have been able to be both inflexible and constructive with senators in advancing ecology. The tragic floods in Germany and Belgium remind us once again of the need to act. So this law responds first and foremost to the climate emergency with powerful measures: 200 billion euros of public orders will be directed towards the environment; 4 million poorly isolated dwellings will be renovated on an ambitious schedule; halving the rate of soil artificialisation is decided and planned; 300 million meals in private collective catering will contain 50% of sustainable and organic products; low-emission areas will be well generalized according to the timetable set by our assembly; the transition of road transport will be maintained; Finally, our commitment to doubling rail freight by 2030 will now be enshrined in the law. With 376 articles, the law will allow ecology to enter the daily life of the French ever faster and stronger thanks to concrete and effective measures. The creation of an environmental display of products will be a major lever to guide consumers and remove the least respectful productions. I am also thinking of the development of the bike, which is fully dedicated: tomorrow, the French will be able to benefit from the bonus for the conversion of their polluting vehicle in order to buy an electric bike, which was impossible until then, and the spare parts will be available to facilitate the repair. These are concrete measures of common sense, much expected by the French, which were more than 2 million to benefit from the last "bike boost". The social accompaniment of the French in the transition was also an imperative for our majority. Ecology cannot mean exclusion or impoverishment of the most fragile. This is why the path of thermal renovation of the buildings will go hand in hand with the help of the households to carry out the works; the creation of a sustainable food check will also advance thanks to this text; Finally, we include an increase in the ceiling of the sustainable mobility package to 600 euros per year per employee, combined with a public transport subscription. These are concrete advances for the French. A field ecology, as we conceive it, places local elected representatives at the heart of action in the territories. Joint work between MPs and senators on this component has greatly enriched the text, particularly on the issue of soil artificialization. Colleagues, the outcome of this law is an undeniable success for the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u275	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u276	...because he wanted to bring the French together in the fight against climate change by combining deliberative democracy and representative democracy: that's it! After the mobilization of the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, Parliament in turn participates in the gathering of the French and in the search for a national consensus. By reaching an agreement, our two assemblies have taken on their responsibilities to act together in the face of the climate emergency, after considerable parliamentary work that honours our two chambers. This unity should inspire us all at a time when our country still has to make crucial decisions in the face of the health crisis. [[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, on this fundamental text for the future of the planet and our children, the left and right of this Chamber have persisted in political postures that are incomprehensible to the French. Will the Republicans join their colleagues in the Senate to finally contribute to the gathering of society for ecology initiated by the President of the Republic, or will they abstain as at first reading? How could members of the Alpes-Maritimes refuse to adopt this text after the tragedy of the Roya and Vesubia valleys? How can the so-called left government sweep with a back of hand nearly 400 articles that accelerate the ecological transition and consolidate the French commitment to meet this immense challenge? The environmental imperative needed to go beyond divides for the common good, but a race for environmental radicality is unfortunately under way, with the presidential election on the line. But the French refuse this counter-productive radicality as much as the incantations intended to flatter such or such groups and to break society on such crucial issues. They do not want to destroy our national prosperity and endanger the means of our transition. They want seriousness and concrete, effective and just solutions. This is what our majority is doing to achieve our goals and quickly, collectively and sustainably transform our model. This law complements an already historic climate assessment since 2017, many of which have been accomplished on mobility, circular economy, green finance or food. In France with the ecological recovery plan, in Europe with the Green Pact and internationally, the mobilization of the President of the Republic and our majority is bearing fruit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects is an important new step in the country's ecological transformation. That is why the La République group will adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u277	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u278	Here we go! After thousands of amendments and tens of hours of examination in both assemblies, here is the time to comment on this text: to take a very fashionable spatial metaphor, the orbit is near! Of course, we should or might hope to welcome such a work, but when it comes to this text, the Republicans have a feeling of great disorder. Indeed, the readability of the strategy is weak in the middle of a battery of measurements whose overall consistency is not obvious – it is an understatement! –, since they range from the small symbol to a certain audacity. This lack of readability seems even more glaring with the calendar telescoping, since the unveiling of the European Commission's climate package risks making this bill obsolete even before it is promulgated. This climate package is based on a very clear strategy which will lead to important negotiations and probably to adaptations of our national law in order to comply with the objectives set: we will therefore have to rework the subjects we have just dealt with since March.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u279	But everything that has been done is no longer to be done!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u280	The disorder also results from the fact that dogmatism has too often won over realism, and some measures introduced by the right have been evacuated, preventing consensus. The examples are many: while the energy renovation of housing represents a massive deposit to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our country, the financial accompaniment provided for by the Senate with the significant increase in wholesale prices for electricity to counter the massive energy insecurity of next winter, which will be at the heart of our debates; While the Senate had introduced the inclusion of the opinion of the mayors for the installation of a wind farm, the text of the CMP turned this stage into a simple mandatory consultation –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u281	It's called a veto!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u282	...it's the fashion with vaccination: we knew the optionally compulsory vaccination, here's its counterpart for wind energy with this in-between, this "at the same time". This is proof that you want to pursue the same policy on wind energy, without taking into account the budgetary or ecological arguments that argue to put an end to this industrial and financial gabegie. In the midst of this disorder, let us be fair and recognize that progress is to be welcomed – I see you breathing, rapporteur-general: yes, there are positive points! The creation of a zero-rate loan seemed an indispensable and minimal corollary to the deployment of low-emission areas. We cannot exclude from city centres the middle and popular classes who cannot afford to invest in cleaner vehicles. You consented to it from the tip of your lips in CMP, at one o'clock in the morning: you had to do a little mouth-to-mouth, but we did it! Let us also congratulate ourselves on the progress made on inland and rail freight or on taking into account the objectives of security of supply and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions before a nuclear reactor is shut down, which was originally absent from this text: Madam Minister, I thank you for accepting that the bill deals with nuclear energy, you who are so rarely talking about it and in terms far less flowery than those in the text. However, this bill contains measures that will do more harm than they will serve the environmental cause and prevent us from supporting it. This is the case with the introduction of an eco-tax that does not say its name, which we cannot resolve,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u283	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u284	... especially since you plan to put it in place by order after the presidential election: the process, Mr. Balanant, is of a hypocrisy without name! If you want to restore the ecotax, have the courage to tell the French and do so before the sanction of the ballot box comes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u285	It's an ecotax!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u286	Article 69b also poses a real problem because of the creation of a genuine special interim measure in environmental matters: whereas there is already an administrative police procedure, this interim measure will place a major legal risk on companies: on simple referral to an environmental non-governmental organisation, a judge may, in parallel with an administrative procedure, stop the activity of an undertaking for a period of up to one year, even if it is in good faith. This is a significant legal risk that investors will not fail to integrate into their calculations: it is surprising to see that you eliminate the remedies against wind turbines when you multiply them for other activities. We have been the opposition parliamentary group that tabled the most amendments and we have drawn up a genuine counter-draft of fifty-seven strong measures in favour of a positive ecology. It was a balanced project, and we would have liked to see the progress made in your text, which is unfortunately not the case. For these reasons, the group The Republicans decided to abstain on this text: to take a spatial metaphor, decidedly fashionable, it is not the firing that worries us...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u287	Aubert's in orbit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u288	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... but the return to real life; Like a satellite coming back into the Earth's atmosphere and dislocating in small pieces, your ideological text has lost many of its most harmful elements. We fear, however, that in contact with the ground, that is to say, with reality, it will eventually explode leaving a large crater behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u289	Mrs Florence Lasserre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u290	The text we are about to vote on is the result of an unprecedented democratic exercise, in which 150 French people gathered to make proposals to achieve our target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u291	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u292	I would like to welcome here, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, their continued involvement throughout their work, despite a health context that has forced them to be inventive in order to continue to move forward. As can be seen from the hundreds of hours of work and discussion in both houses, parliamentarians have welcomed this bill with the solemnity and seriousness of the climate emergency we are facing. The measures provided for in this text are in line with the policy pursued by the majority since 2017, which has given a place of choice to the ecological cause in our actions. For our group, the potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from all the titles of the text under discussion is up to our 2030 commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u293	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u294	With regard to changing consumption habits, one of our priorities is to better inform the consumer – who wants to know before buying today, even if it means buying less, but better. If we regret that our proposal to put an end to the use of polystyrene has not been taken up again, we are particularly proud that Parliament has supported our group's fight to ban eco-money laundering, which is now included in the text. It will no longer be possible for a company to boast the environmental impact of its product without scientific proof. Furthermore, you know our group's commitment to decentralization and, with it, the special attention we pay to giving the territories the means to be involved in the ecological transition. That is why we welcome the adoption of measures such as the decentralization of the police power of advertising, the strengthening of the role of local elected representatives with regard to the establishment of wind turbines, the regionalisation of the national objectives of multi-annual energy programming or the possibility of a specific contribution based on transport. With the passage of the provisions of Title IV of the bill, rewritten to be more effective, we also act on how to occupy space and on our habitat, with the slogan of accompanying households. Indeed, the State will accompany all French households in the thermal renovation of their homes in order to simplify access to the aid and to ensure that they are left with minimal or no burden for the most modest households. The text we are discussing today is also a historic text, as for the first time we are setting out in the law the ambition to achieve zero net artificialisation of soil by 2050 in order to prevent the artificialization of thousands of hectares of natural areas, agricultural or forestry, which disappear every year. However, we have ensured that land protection does not take place at the expense of housing production, which is a priority given the difficulties that more and more French people face in finding decent housing at a reasonable price. Before concluding my speech, I would like to comment briefly on the provisions on the judicial protection of the environment, which have been greatly enriched by the commitment of our colleague and rapporteur Erwan Balanant. Its work has provided our justice system with tools that will enable it to contribute more effectively to the fight against global warming, as well as to include in the law a Title VII on climate and environmental assessment. In the future, each section of the texts to be reviewed will benefit from an environmental assessment to enable the legislator to make an informed decision. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Despite what has been said, we welcome the constructive spirit behind our work on a text that is not the result of a compromise, but rather that of a common ambition: to act in response to the environmental emergency. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote for this text, hoping that it will be the same on all sides of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u295	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u296	In late June, extreme heat waves hit the United States and Canada; The heat domes that fell on several cities have caused dozens of deaths. The Amazon forest has become a carbon emitter. Madagascar is struck by famine. A few days ago, the European continent was hit; This happened in France, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands: heavy rains, coupled with the artificialisation of soils often excessive, caused real torrents of mud that destroyed everything on their way. The truth is true, ladies and gentlemen: climate disasters kill and threaten the safety of the people. Each tenth of an additional degree will increase the intensity of climate phenomena. Researchers are already struggling to predict this kind of phenomenon. What will happen tomorrow if we fail to drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions to 2°C? Where does the text deal specifically with the adaptation and resilience of our country to natural phenomena? The bill was part of a bold approach to participatory democracy, with the meeting of a Citizen's Convention for the Climate to which I pay tribute. The opportunity was great to put our country on the path of carbon neutrality once and for all to truly meet the commitments made in the 2015 Paris Agreement. So, in recent days, like you, I have wondered whether the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee in which I participated is really up to the challenges that we and our children will face in the coming decades. The answer comes, first of all, from the various reports of the IPCC, which has alerted us for more than thirty years with premonitory conclusions: the greenhouse effect will accentuate the two extremes of the hydrological cycle, that is, there will be more episodes of extremely heavy rains and more droughts – that is what we are witnessing today. If we do not drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, these phenomena will further increase after 2030 and after 2040, alert us to these different reports. The answer to my question also comes from the High Climate Council, an independent body mandated by the President of the Republic to analyse whether we are able, in the light of the legislative and regulatory standards adopted, to fulfil the commitments we have set ourselves. France will have to make an immediate adjustment to the timetables and efforts now that the European Union has set itself a more ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] Finally, another part of the response is found in the Grande-Synthe decision of the Council of State, in which the highest administrative court recently gave the State nine months to take measures to combat global warming. You wanted to win two months of debate, we will lose two years of concrete action.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u297	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u298	These responses come from the highest scientific and legal institutions and independent bodies whose seriousness and authority are recognized by all. So what will remain of this text that lacks ambition? After its promulgation, we will continue to be watered with advertising, including for polluting products. The aid for inland freight is insufficient. Public transport will not benefit from a reduced rate of VAT. Low-emission areas will come into effect in eleven metropolitan areas and thirty-five agglomerations without any anticipated effects, including significant social effects. The zero-rate loan that you recalled the adoption in CMP will be limited in time and space; It will not allow all our fellow citizens, and especially the most modest, to acquire a cleaner vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u299	Microcredit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u300	The scope of this provision must be measured, because it is the freedom to come and go that will be called into question, with the risk of creating a two-speed France. In addition to this, there is a lack of ambition on thermal renewal, the absence of a real ban on the rental of thermal colanders, no significant structural agricultural change and legal protection of the environment, which is content with publicity effects such as the crime of ecocide, which, in view of the conditions laid down, will probably almost never be pronounced and demonizes the very term ecocide. We have, of course, a collective responsibility. There is also the personal responsibility of parliamentarians. Who can say that we are doing enough for the climate by adopting this compromise law? Who can really tell his neighbours, his children, his grandchildren, that everything is really being done to protect them and to guarantee them a world that is, tomorrow, liveable and peaceful? The text is incomplete, insufficient and contains many half-measures. It should have been taken over, improved and completed at second reading. We should have incorporated more of our amendments and proposals from the High Climate Council. [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] As you will understand, we will vote against this text, which will not bring about any concrete changes for the climate and for the environment. In the lives of our fellow citizens, it risks creating great frustrations. We need guarantees of social cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u301	As you did nothing between 2012 and 2017, you are faithful to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u302	Long live the inaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u303	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u304	The text we are looking at today is first and foremost a text that changes the daily lives of the French. Based on an unprecedented democratic experience, that of the Citizen's Climate Convention, the bill aims to combat climate change and strengthen our country's resilience to its effects. It is a founding law for the environment. With this text, France demonstrates that it is at the rendezvous of the international commitments it has made with regard to climate and biodiversity. Our majority thus makes ecology enter definitively and positively into the daily life of the French at a time when, more than ever, it is marked by dramatic natural disasters that remind us that it is time for everyone to act. With this bill, a lot of things will change in how we consume, produce, work, move, live and eat, too. Some may say that we are not going far enough or fast enough, but no one can deny that there will be a before and a after and that we will not go back in terms of ecology. It is a strategy of the small steps, of course, but it moves without backwards by ensuring that no one stays at the edge of the road. You have always defended this strategy, Madam Minister, and I commend your courage and consistency in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u305	Not really...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u306	The text honours Parliament. One year of work since the Citizen Climate Convention, twelve days of debate in a special committee, three weeks in a public sitting and one month of debate in the Senate: this text is indeed a child who has been lured into the arms of our democracy. It is important to remember this in view of the change it brings in our lives. On Monday, July 12, after nine hours of negotiations and the examination of 378 articles, MPs and senators agreed to maintain the ambition of the text and reached a concluding CMP. From 69 clauses at the outset, the bill rose to 378 after the Senate review, where the bill was consolidated and enriched with further progress. The Group of the European People's Party, committed to the role of Parliament, can only be pleased to see the work of the two chambers succeed. This joint work on an essential topic that must bring us together, that of climate and the environment, honours our assemblies. Like my colleagues, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who have made this conclusion possible. The text responds to most of the expectations expressed by the Action Together Group. We had three fights at the opening of the debate. The first was that of environmental realism: it included the preservation of biodiversity in a bill originally too exclusively focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating global warming. This fight seems to us to be a win, and we welcome it: in every title, from the education of the youngest to the evaluation of the law, to the planning projects and the protection of forests and roads, the challenges of biodiversity are always associated with those of the climate. Our second fight was that of social realism. The ecological transition cannot be achieved without social justice and the care of the most modest. We insisted on the necessary simplification of renovation aid and on the minimization of the remainder for a global renovation. On this point, Madam Minister, everything is not achieved, and we will remain vigilant; However, we would like to welcome a fine measure of social justice brought by the Senate, the zero-rate loan for the purchase of a clean vehicle for the most modest French people living near the ZFEs. Our third fight was that of economic realism, particularly through the question of compensation for companies. We called for virtuous market mechanisms, including carbon compensation, but also biodiversity compensation, to be put in place. On this point, we have begun to be heard, but much remains to be done and huge work is to be done, including the efficiency of the European carbon market and the creation of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] I have no doubt that these projects, that of social justice and that of compensation, will be among the battles that you will lead alongside the President of the Republic in the framework of the next French Presidency of the European Union. Be aware that for this law, but also to bring the ecological project of France to the head of the European Union, you will be able to count on the members of the group Take Action together. As you will understand, our group will vote for the text of the CMP and, faithful to its liberal, social and European values, will continue to support the French initiative on ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u307	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u308	Well, we'll abstain. That is the position I proposed to our group with my colleague Guy Bricout, because we were both the message bearers on this text, and I will explain it to myself. You must have measured, Madam Minister, how difficult it is to propose, as a minister, texts dealing with ecology and ecological transition. I remember you as if it were yesterday, when you were a Member of Parliament and you were going to the Chamber to defend your beliefs and ideas, especially during the EGALIM Act. There are good things in your text; That is why I proposed this morning to the other members of the IDU and independent group that we abstain on this bill rather than oppose it. [[MM François-Michel Lambert and Jean-Paul Dufrègne applaud]] Your text is incomplete on many of our concerns, including wind energy. Indeed, we regret that this text does not restore the areas of wind development. I say it and say it again: at present, some promoters of wind energy are driven by the bait of gain rather than by the concern of the ecological transition. When they approach land owners, farmers and local elected officials, it is to "sensitize" them to the issue with funding. That's how they get the agreement to install wind turbines! On the contrary, wind development zones would allow projects to be planned in a transparent manner. We have another regret, Madam Minister. Despite a good debate in the Chamber, we are not implementing the moratorium on the establishment of commercial square metres on the outskirts of cities announced by Edward Philippe when he was Prime Minister. The moratorium will ultimately apply only to surfaces greater than or equal to 10000 square metres; below this surface, the text provides for derogations from everything. The result of the races: nothing will change in the commercial urban planning projects of medium-sized cities and large cities. However, it is well known that large areas are the driving force behind areas of commercial activity in the periphery and the emblem of a mode of consumption, that of the 1960s and 1970s: excessive consumerism. If you want to change behavior, it would have taken a three-year moratorium on the placement of square meters by the large distribution. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – MM. Dominique Potier and Bertrand Pancher also applaud]] We also discussed the introduction of environmental and social clauses. I am one of the twenty and a few Members elected in Brittany and I would have liked to see a social display for granite, as for textiles, in addition to an environmental display. It is thus clear which granites are extracted in areas where children have to type on pebbles and which textiles are produced by children, in Bangladesh or otherwise. I found this debate important; It should have been planned. I also regret that you and your majority, Madam Minister, have found it useful to force collective catering to offer vegetarian dishes – even if this will remain one option among others. In France, we are not paying sufficient attention to the initiatives of the territories. I am a Member of Parliament for Ille-et-Vilaine, like the Chairman of the Joint Joint Committee, Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie. The company is therefore familiar with the association Bleu-Blanc-Coeur, which has been working for twenty years on the measurement of methane emissions from animal rations and is now able to calculate them, which is important, knowing that 1 tonne of methane is equivalent to 30 tonnes of CO. The measuring device of this association, with its headquarters in Ille-et-Vilaine, is the only one in the world approved by the United Nations. I regret that our debates, both in the special committee and in the Chamber, have continued to fuel the dispute between animal and plant sectors. For all these reasons, beyond the positive elements of your bill, the IDU and independent group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u309	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u310	Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs – since you have taken many of you to commit this text –, parliamentary colleagues, the flooding of the Roya Valley has caused nine deaths and nine missing; mud flows in Japan, fifteen dead and fourteen missing; the heat bubble in Canada resulted in a hundred deaths and completely scratched a village off the map; At least 191 people died after the floods in eastern France, Belgium and Germany. The text you submit to a final vote is an affront to these victims and to all of us. It is called an abusive bill to combat climate change and build resilience to its effects, but it does not even integrate what is essential. Creeping example: the management of our forests is completely absent from the text. Yet they play an essential role in the water cycle and in climate regulation; It is even more true now that it is a matter of amortizing the devastating effects of horrific climatic episodes – peaks of heat or extreme precipitation. But from all this, you don't want to talk, because you don't want to get out of your guilty inaction. If we don't plant hedges, trees, and restore wetlands, it's inevitable: we'll still see torrents rolling down the slopes to take whole cities and break lives. Your text also does not foresee anything concerning the cessation of massive concreteization of the soil,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u311	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u312	... while they must regain their initial function: to allow water to infiltrate and store it in groundwater. But it is true that in recent years you have entrusted the planning of the territory to Vinci, Bouygues, Auchan, Carrefour or Leclerc. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I note, however, that, faithful to your dogma of competition and competitiveness, you have accompanied a new economic player to help us fight global warming and concreteisation: Amazon. Yes, Amazon and his boss Jeff Bezos, a friend of President Macron's. Jeff Bezos struggles day and night to save us the climate chaos, with his warehouses covering thousands of square meters of land, with his planes and trucks that emit tons of CO to deliver in twenty-four hours from Taiwan a connected toaster, or with this space tourism for those who want to see from space the state in which they have put our planet. You roll the red carpet to these giants that destroy not only the environment, but also the local economic and social fabric. As for food production, be quiet, lobbyists take care of everything. Needless to ask a thousand questions, everything will continue as before, without accelerating the relocation and transition of our agriculture to environmentally sustainable and income-generating practices for our farmers. Not a step will be taken to impose vegetarian alternatives in the menus of collective restoration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u313	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u314	However, they are a powerful tool for revitalizing local vegetable production and making it remunerative. With regard to the most energy-intensive sectors and therefore emitters of greenhouse gases, everyone hoped that you had incorporated a simple logic: the least polluting energy is that which is not consumed. Energy sobriety should therefore have been at the heart of the measures allowing for a bifurcation of our methods of organisation. It was not to mention Total, king of oil, or even MM. Bolloré, Niel, Pinault, and I forget, princes of the superfluous advertising, probably held the pen and above all the gum of the Government. Massive investments in rail transport have been forgotten. The ambitious thermal renovation of the buildings was postponed to after the flood. Are we proposing to frame advertising for the most polluting products? Not even in a dream! As for the end of the internal air shuttles, it's a crash even before take-off! When we look at the final picture, it is clear that the CAC40 companies have done a powerful lobbying effort on this bill, to reduce its scope. Of course, they have achieved their goal. [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the agreement you have reached with the Senate Right allows President Macron to close his "green" communication sequence and avoid a new parliamentary debate that would have demonstrated once again your climate inaction. Floods in the Roya Valley...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u315	We must conclude, Mr. Prud'homme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u316	... caused nine deaths and nine missing, mud flows in Japan, fifteen dead and fourteen missing; The heat bubble in Canada has resulted in a hundred deaths...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u317	Mr Prud'homme, please, time is up!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u318	[[Continuous exclamations on various benches]] ...and completely scratched a village from the map. I'll finish, Mr. President. Floods in eastern France, Belgium and Germany caused at least 191 deaths.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, please: Mr Prud'homme is about to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u320	Your sterile greenwashing has a cost that counts in human lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u321	It is quite unpleasant for you to cut off a colleague who has been legitimately elected and who was ready to conclude. Mr. Millienne, you didn't have to provoke this agitation...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u322	They don't even provoke them, do they? It's their habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u323	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is up to me to preside, not you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u324	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Government is submitting 29 amendments. After discussing it with the minister, I suggest that you give her the floor to present their overall philosophy. The rapporteur will then speak; I will finally give one speech for each group that wishes to speak, and then we will proceed to the successive votes. The minister is in favour of Amendments Nos 7, 19, 20, 4, 3, 8, 9, 1, 26, 25, 10, 18, 2, 5, 6, 23, 11, 24, 27, 30, 22, 21, 12, 13, 29, 14, 15 and 16, which may be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u325	I'll be brief. These are editorial amendments, amendments to the text that have been incorporated into the text, or amendments to coordination and coherence, which have been discussed with the representatives of the two chambers and are intended only to make the provisions adopted in the CMP fully effective. It is nothing of the substance, only of the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u326	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u327	I will give a favourable opinion. We have studied with senators these editorial amendments, which absolutely do not change the substance of the text adopted in the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u328	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u329	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendments just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u330	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 342 Number of votes cast 268 Absolute majority 135 For adoption 233 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u331	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u332	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u333	The next item is the re-reading of the Bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2020 (No. 4377, 4384). The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u334	We find ourselves for a new reading of the proposed regulations for 2020, following the rejection of the text by the Senate at first reading and the failure of the Joint Joint Commission to find common ground. As I have already had the opportunity to say before you, the 2020 execution is exceptional, because of the large discrepancies between the figures implemented and the figures foreseen in the original Finance Act for 2020. These differences are due to the recession, estimated at 7.9% of GDP, and exceptional spending – all of which has increased the government deficit to 9.2% of GDP. You all have in mind the main mechanisms involved in the widening of this deficit by the expenditure induced: partial activity, for more than 35 billion euros, of which 26 billion euros in 2020; the solidarity fund for businesses, self-employed, entrepreneurs, for EUR 31 billion; loans guaranteed by the State, although they do not involve expenditure with immediate effect. Other support was provided, including exemption from contributions. We have always ensured, during this year 2020, that we have the resources to finance the measures to help businesses and to have the cash required by the payment of the aid. In fact, the amounts of the planned appropriations have sometimes proved to be larger than the amounts actually consumed, as economic activity has remained at a higher level than we feared. These schemes have been effective in preventing bankruptcies, maintaining the purchasing power of the French – which increased by 0.4% in 2020 – or preserving the financing capacity of local authorities. It is this execution that I propose to approve, as you did at first reading. This historical deficit of 9.2 per cent of GDP reflects both the loss of income from the crisis and the exceptional expenditure incurred. This expenditure was made possible by the use of financial markets, which was carried out on favourable terms thanks to the recovery efforts undertaken previously: compliance with the 3% rule, reduction in the rate of compulsory levies, decrease in the share of public expenditure in GDP. For the future, we will obviously have to take account of this deficit and set ourselves on a path of recovery in public finances. To achieve this, our action will be spread over four axes: growth, which we wish to maximize through the recovery plan; the gradual exit of emergency devices, subject to constant attention to the health situation; serious management of regular expenditure and improved management and governance of public finances. That is the meaning of the proposals for an organic law adopted last night by your House on the initiative of Mr Thomas Mesnier, for the Committee on Social Affairs, and Mr Eric Woerth and Mr Laurent Saint-Martin for the Committee on Finance, which will be useful for us to improve this governance. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am particularly brief because you are all aware of the content of the settlement law that we discussed together a month ago. After the failure of the CMP and the rejection of the Senate, I call on you to confirm the approval of the accounts for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u335	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u336	We meet again to discuss the draft regulation for 2020, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee that we welcomed to the Assembly a few days ago. We have not been able to find with the Senate the compromise that we have been accustomed to for the five amending finance bills that have been passed since the crisis began. The upper house chose to reject every clause of the bill, so the text as a whole. It is a matter for the Senate to highlight the unbalanced state of our public finances and, perhaps even more so, to criticise certain aspects of their management in 2020 and 2021, particularly with regard to the massive carry-overs of appropriations made between these two years in the service of emergency programmes. As I have mentioned on many occasions, I understand some reservations about this management. However, we must all recognize in a responsible manner the peculiarity of the period and the difficulty we are still facing today in projecting beyond a few months for the management of our public finances. The most important thing is that in 2020, as in 2021, the French did not miss a cent authorized by Parliament – neither for their income, nor for their employment, nor for economic activity. You know the content of the text. It has little to do with the initial finance law of 2020, and everything to do with the successive amending finance laws of last year. It was a political, technical and necessary response to the crisis. To recall the large figures for the year, the government deficit reached 211.5 billion euros – a level unprecedented since the creation of the national accounts in 1949. The government deficit is slightly lower, amounting to 178.1 billion euros. This is due to the fact that the social security budget has been at the forefront of the response to the crisis. Public spending has clearly reached a previously unknown level, with the total amount spent in 2020 – for urgency and recovery – amounting to €74 billion. We must realize the magnitude of the upheaval that this represents. This figure is just slightly lower than the general government deficit in 2019. The level is expected to be even higher in 2021, at EUR 107.5 billion. It is also a sign that the crisis and recovery are, in 2021 as in 2020, our daily bread. The 2020 exercise allowed us to experiment and then refine our dual approach and that of the Government with, after the emergency management, the impetus given to the revival of the economy. Health developments have forced us to respond pragmatically – this is still the case today – adapted and tailor-made, which has neither prevented recovery nor prevented emergency rescue. Today's sitting comes at a moment of intense reflection on our public finances, between the debate on the orientation of public finances held in the Assembly last Thursday and the organic texts that we adopted yesterday at first reading. The unprecedented changes in our public finances require a demanding reflection on the strategy that will be ours at the end of the crisis. We will have to ensure the sustainability of our public debt, with choices that will be quite fundamental. The next law on public finance programming will be an opportunity to make these choices. All options are on the table; For my part, I believe that we will have to speed up the recovery of the economy, perhaps as soon as we return, in order to feed as much as possible the growth that will allow us to generate additional revenue. After the massive leap that we experienced in 2020 and 2021, the evolution of public spending will need to be better understood and managed. The year 2022 should mark the end of the "no matter what" – we all wish – and the establishment of a fiscal policy that, in the medium term, will aim to control spending in order to reduce our public debt. The French know how much we have mobilized the debt tool to deal with the crisis, and many are concerned about it – it is very legitimate. The public debt amounted to just over EUR 2000 billion at the end of 2020; It's an unknown level in our recent history. Therefore, our role will be to propose a realistic, coherent and pragmatic public finance strategy in order to foster the confidence essential to our democratic and economic life in the years to come. I will not go back to the progress we made last night in examining the proposal for an organic law on the modernization of public financial management. After reminding you of these basic elements, I propose that you pass the bill in its version of the National Assembly, the Senate having rejected it as a whole. All groups have recognised, both in 2020 and in recent months, that the necessary public response to the crisis has been, at least in part, the right one. Your collective support for this text, beyond the political divides, will make it possible to close the accounts for an exceptional year. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As rapporteur-general, I appreciate the complexity that we have had to deal with, but also the pride that was mine to accompany you in the course of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u337	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u338	I will refer to some of the highlights of this bill that, in essence, makes us look to the past while providing us with some elements to better face the future. First of all, the year 2020 was obviously very exceptional. Under the original finance law, the budget deficit was projected at EUR 93 billion; It finally stood at 178 billion – for memory, after the 2008 crisis, the 2009 government deficit was 30 billion lower. The second highlight is the massive carry-over of credits from 2020 to 2021: €36 billion. This is still a very significant element of the bill and the budgetary phenomena of the year 2020 – that is why the Senate considered that the budget was not sincere. Thirdly, the crisis does not explain the totality of expenditure. As the Court of Auditors has already said, 7 billion is for additional expenditure which is not attributable to the crisis, to the recovery or, above all, to the emergency plan. Five missions in the general budget are experiencing an increase in non-crisis expenditure of more than EUR 1 billion. The crisis cannot be a pretext for spending on all the lines – everyone will understand it well, but unfortunately this does not seem to be the case today. In the context of the debate on the orientation of public finances, looking a little ahead of us this time, we had confirmation that the reduction of public expenditure was not really on the agenda, nor that of public employment, without which there can be no control and control of public expenditure. Last but not least, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is the development of debt. Pushed by the crisis, it stands at a very high level. As everyone knows, this debt is obviously a stone in the garden of France – it will be very complicated to reduce it. Nothing in the Government's strategy for the coming years can reassure us. The truth is that France is vulnerable to any increase or even simmering of the interest rate curve. Yesterday we were able to adopt a proposal for an organic law which the rapporteur-general and I tabled and we had a good debate. It will allow us to modernise our public finance management tools, but it will only be of interest if we put a good policy in it – the right tools work well when they help inform a good policy. During the year 2022, we will need very strong signs to show that France is not subscribed to deficits and that there is no fatality for France to live beyond its means, even if at some point it is to pay for the heavy consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u339	In the general debate, Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u340	The failure of the Joint Joint Committee has confirmed the extent of the continuing disagreements between the vision of public finances that we share with the Senate right and that of the Government since 2017. We make our budgetary sovereignty a priority for the future of future generations and we defend courageous management of public funds, while you are largely disinterested in the subject, relegating it to the background. In this draft regulation, I too wish to denounce, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has done, the very large amounts of unconsumed appropriations and therefore the massive carry-overs from 2020 to 2021 resulting from them, amounting to EUR 36 billion. Therefore, we can only question the budgetary sincerity of the text. Finally, we once again denounce the irrelevance of the distribution of appropriations between emergency, recovery and the regular budget. Of course, 2020 will remain in the annals as the year of the worst recession of the 21st century. Our GDP has contracted by more than 8 points, much more than elsewhere in Europe. As a result, our public finances have deteriorated sharply and considerably. Our budget deficit is rising to 178 billion euros, and our debt is exploding to 115% of GDP. In the face of this unprecedented crisis, the state has played its role as a cyclical shock absorber and we welcome it. It was essential to preserve households and businesses as much as possible during the storm. That is why, together with my fellow Members of Parliament, the Republicans, we supported the imperative of "no matter what" and defended measures to support economic activity. We have, moreover, in charge, voted on the four amending finance bills for 2020, while reaffirming that the consequences of the budgetary measures that we have voted on must be borne in mind. But the problem is not so much the management of public finances in 2020. No, what we are constantly denouncing is the total lack of control over public accounts in the three years of growth that preceded the emergence of the covid-19. Indeed, unlike Germany, in recent years France has been unable to take advantage of growth to undertake courageous structural reforms and thus restore the balance of our finances. The reform of pensions is completely at a standstill and your reform ambition is now only an old memory. On the contrary, since 2017, public spending has been increasing steadily, placing us in a situation of relative fragility as we approach the crisis. While in 2019 twenty-three of the twenty-eight countries in the European Union fell into debt, France was one of the five countries that continued to increase their debt. As has been said – and we will continue – the crisis cannot and must not be used as an excuse for all your renunciations. Before the crisis, France was already Europe's champion of public spending; before the crisis, France already held the European record for compulsory levies; before the crisis, France already had one of the worst deficits in the euro area, 3% of GDP, compared with an average of 0.9% in the euro area; before the crisis, French debt was already close to 100% of GDP, compared to 60% in Germany, and 80% in the European Union. Even your promise to reduce the size of the state by 50,000 civil servants was abandoned, long before the emergence of the covid. That is why Members of the European Parliament The Republicans will be in the footsteps of the majority of the Senate and will vote against the bill for re-reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u341	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u342	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u343	I thought that my speech would be an opportunity to make my speech about the final reading of the bill to regulate and approve the accounts for the year 2020. But, as they say in my house, that nenni! The Senate did not pass the bill, with only 50 votes for out of 345 votes. We have had a joint joint committee which is rather lunar and, indeed, not conclusive. I'm still trying to figure out how and why. Yes, many things could have been done better and the figures we are looking at today can give a feeling of vertigo. Some – including our fellow senators – are criticizing overbudgeting, particularly in the context of the Fourth Amending Finance Act. In retrospect, it is true that they appear very important and challenge the budgetary legislator we are. We said it ourselves at first reading. However, they do not appear to be illogical: based on estimates of the cost of the first confinement, they called for substantial appropriations, in particular in favour of the partial activity and the solidarity fund. At the time, it was difficult to predict that the economic consequences of the second containment would be significantly mitigated, as it was difficult to obtain a reliable estimate. I would also like to remind our honourable senators that at the time, even if it seems distant, they had voted on the four amending finance bills. Today, it seems to me surprising – and even deplorable – that the Senate is collectively rejecting the law of regulation. Clearly, we are not even able to agree on the record of the previous year. For me, this is a moment of sidereal vacuum in Parliament. Furthermore, as you know, there is an accelerated procedure on the bill; It makes absolutely sense about this type of text. But here again, accelerate and pass the next day, we really don't know how to do it. Should we slow down, on the grounds that some people wouldn't want to follow? This is also true of me in view of the challenges we are now facing. Minister Delegate, let me reassure you that on Thursday we will still be here for the final reading and give you our final report on the 2020 fiscal year. Finally, on the substance, I will make a few remarks on the year 2020. I would have thought that they would convince our friends in this chamber to vote the settlement law. First of all, the 2020 financial year for which we are invited tonight to give the Government a discharge was exceptional in all respects: both with regard to its progress, the figures that I am not going to recall, and with regard to the commitment of the State, which has been at the meeting to protect the French from the health crisis and to deal with its economic and social consequences. For an exceptional year, yes, it had to be exceptional. We all said that last year at the same time: these measures were indispensable. Indispensable, first of all, because it took very strong decisions to preserve the health of our fellow citizens; It is also essential, for the economic counterpart, because a company that disappears is a fabric of relationships, know-how, culture, a community lost forever. Let us recall what we have done: the state-guaranteed loan, the solidarity fund, the partial activity and the postponements of social and tax charges. Two thousand and twenty was also the year of the resilience of revenues – not, of course, in relation to the original finance law, but above all, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, in view of the economic impact of the first months of the pandemic. Forecasts have been far more difficult to establish than we thought. Finally, at European level, thanks to the action of the President of the Republic, we are very committed because the European leaders have decided to respond together to the crisis and to accompany those of them who have suffered the most. In fact, honourable senators did not consider that to be the year 2020. And, unlike them, the French population has understood well what we have done in economic and budgetary terms. That is the main point, ladies and gentlemen: the French are aware of the budgetary efforts that have been made. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group will obviously vote on the draft regulation – and Thursday will be another day, another speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u344	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u345	We should not call this bill a bill of regulations, because we do not have the opportunity to amend anything. A settlement law is indeed about the past and it is difficult, by definition, to change the past. Furthermore, we do not even have the right to change the amounts of carry-overs or cancellations of appropriations. We therefore serve nothing and are reduced to spectators. I will therefore comment on the text as a spectator. I will start with the structural balance. It reflects the share of the deficit that comes from the structural difficulties of the economy – for example, because we do not have enough industries. You estimate it at 1.3 percentage points of GDP and thus decided to allocate most of the government deficit to its cyclical component, as if, basically, the entire deficit were the result of the crisis. It is all the more strange that, in the initial finance law for 2020, you did exactly the opposite, bringing the whole deficit to the structural part. Throughout the debates, you never explained what changed your mind. However, your amendment covers more than 20 billion euros. I say "your modification", since the structural deficit is never observable and is the result of a macroeconomic theoretical construction that allows us to understand the state of the economy. This choice, unexplained, is all the more curious as the European Commission, which has recalculated our structural deficit for 2020, estimates it at 5.3 points of GDP. In other words, she thinks that three quarters of our deficit for 2020 comes from the fact that our economy is permanently damaged, whereas you think the opposite since you have reduced the level of structural deficit in the settlement law. Such a gap between Bercy's calculations and those of the European Commission, Minister Delegate, is never seen. This divergence of opinion on the state of our economy is a challenge to me. I therefore await your answer on this point. Secondly, with regard to the amount of appropriations carried over, we have reached EUR 36 billion, of which EUR 28.8 million comes from the emergency plan mission in response to the health crisis. Again, this is an unprecedented amount, but it corresponds to an equally new situation. However, there is a question about PLFR 4, which has allocated €20 billion to carry forward 28.8; But I want to understand that for a year like 2020, it's a little complicated. I'm coming to the cancelled credits. One can understand that, because of the crisis of the covid -19, some are – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had to finance far fewer trips. But some cancellations are surprising. This is the case of 172 million euros in credits for school education, of which 104 million for the second degree. I am very surprised that this money could have been used to improve the computer equipment of teachers. You are also canceling €60 million from the justice budget, of which €43 million was originally allocated to the prison administration, and everyone knows that it must manage overcrowded institutions. You are still canceling €42 million on the work and employment mission, which is a great deal in view of the difficulties encountered in the year 2020. Finally, you cancel €99 million on the Security Mission, including €53 million for the police and €43 million for the gendarmerie; There too, there is something to be surprised at. I'll say a word about recovery. In 2020, unlike the other countries, there was no recovery plan in France, no money spent on recovery, whereas for urgency, yes. The recovery plan was presented at the beginning of September 2020, more than three months after Germany's or three months after the one presented by the Socialist Party. So he found his translation only in the budget for 2021, which means that we took a little bit late at the ignition. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, there is what the bill does not say. I come back to one point I asked the Prime Minister earlier: the text does not show that we have missed the investment in vaccination. In 2020, we invested €17.4 million in covid-19 vaccine research, compared to $2.17 billion for the United States, $1.5 billion for Germany, $500 million for the United Kingdom, 280 million for Canada and 260 billion for Norway. Well, Minister Delegate, I fear that we will continue to pay for some time for this crucial lack of investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u346	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u347	We're here to re-read the Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for 2020. First of all, let me regret that our honourable senators did not take the same course of wisdom that led them to reach an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee on the amending finance bill a few weeks ago. This text is, however, a formal text, a photograph of the implementation of a past budget. Let us avoid making bad politics at a time when we are expected to become more united to face the bad winds. Having said that, the re-reading of this bill gives us an opportunity to look back on the economic emergency and recovery policy that was carried out last year and its impact on public finances. A lot has already been said. We have had the opportunity on many occasions to recall how necessary the doctrine of "no matter what" was and was the only policy that could protect our fellow citizens. It has shown its strength and effectiveness. It is in the honor of our country, which did not want to leave anyone on the edge of the road, because behind the figures there are human beings, anxieties in front of a darkening of the prospects created by the crisis, but also strategies to be defined. We repeat to our caregivers, our firefighters, our police officers, our public service agents, our cashiers, our cleanliness agents, in short all those who, for the past year and a half, have been at the front line of the virus, how grateful and proud we are of them. At a time when the discussion of the health pass ignites some sometimes ill-intentioned minds, the new reading of this bill comes at a peak to remind us of the violence of the crisis, both in terms of health, moral, social and economic. From a human, psychological or economic point of view, we could not bear to relive for many months the confinement situations we experienced in 2020. To avoid this, there is a simple solution: vaccination. She's our way out of this long-lasting epidemic. And since it is public finances that hold our attention here, it must be said clearly: the state will not be able to experience an eternal level of expenditure similar to that of 2020. We would not, however, be there if the resolutely reformative spirit had not emerged in the three years preceding the crisis. We are also pleased, in the Group of the European People's Party, that the reform is continuing, however, by adapting to a changing and ever-changing environment. This sense of adaptation, this ability to act is only possible because there has been a front. And this ability to adapt is to put to the credit of the government that we support – the French have understood it well. We are now at a crossroads, ladies and gentlemen. The crisis caused an electroshock reminding us of our duties of solidarity, our ecological duties, but also our duties of financial virtue. Is that to say that we must at all costs establish a financial austerity that could break the economic rebound? No. The restoration of public accounts is a necessity, but one that must be matched with support for the productive apparatus. Work to relocate strategic production chains must continue. The "Made in France" is a mark of quality and independence that we must develop in order to radiate our country. We must now pursue two objectives at the same time, which must be reconciled with a sense of sensitivity: on the one hand, the stimulation of growth and, on the other, the control of public expenditure. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we welcome the Government's decision not to increase taxes, to allow businesses to take their heads out of the water and individuals not to lose purchasing power. At the same time, there is a need to encourage investment and future expenditure. The recovery plan, of which EUR 40 billion is already committed, is a great tool. The announcement by the President of the Republic of an investment plan at the start of the year reinforces this proactive policy which will enable us to return to strong and sustainable growth. Our country is full of great talents, skills, ideas, young people and young people who are ready to build tomorrow's France together. We therefore need to have a vision of the future for the country, its economy and its public finances. In this sense, our group is satisfied with the budgetary orientation set out in the stability programme and in the public finance policy debate: a courageous and realistic direction to start the decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio by 2027, while maintaining or even strengthening the necessary level of investment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Action Together Group will therefore vote in favour of this text, which reflects the massive support that the State has given to all affected actors from the beginning of the crisis. And you will find us at your side, Minister Delegate, to meet this immense challenge: to combine a vigorous rebound of our economy in order to build a more prosperous France tomorrow and to restore our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u348	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u349	The budget for the year 2020 significantly changed the trajectory of public finances, with a public debt now accounting for 117.2% of GDP. In this sense, we understand, to some extent, that we may want to reject the text because of the overall state of public finances and the large amount – EUR 36 billion – of appropriations not consumed in 2020 and carried over in 2021. The management of appropriations, in particular those of the Mission Emergency Plan in the face of the health crisis, was a real challenge since it was not always possible to anticipate health restrictions and their economic effects. It should be noted that these appropriations carried over from the said mission to abound the same mission in 2021 have not changed object or destination. Beyond the billions of euros that the health crisis has cost the economy, the French legitimately worry for future generations, who will have to pay a debt that continues to grow. In this way, we are witnessing a worrying deterioration in public finances, and we are convinced that the issue of debt remains one of the main issues in the coming years, not to say the next few months. When will a real strategic plan for reducing public spending be finally presented, through a hunting for waste and bureaucracy? The IDU and independent group is convinced that debt will be one of the main themes of the next presidential election campaign. And it would be a lie to argue that there will be no increase in taxes to pay for the crisis of the covid-19. We therefore call on the Government to plan to reduce public expenditure. The country's financial situation will require necessary arbitrations to ensure that a recovery path is maintained. A fundamental debate in the coming years will be on the efficiency of public spending, on the relationship between its cost and its ability to achieve the objectives set. Our group has always supported the extension of the accompanying arrangements until the summer of 2021, an approach that remains vital to stimulate the recovery of activity while the country's economy is in recession, by voting the four fiscal collectives in 2020 and the PLFR for 2021. Despite the deterioration of public finances, our group considered that the draft regulations could be similar to, and counter to, the administrative accounts of local and regional authorities only in the event of inseverity of the budget or excessive variations. After a year that has passed through the various budget collectives, and when we have voted on the various PLFRs, our group will vote on this bill for regulation for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u350	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u351	The settlement law, if it does not fascinate the crowds, has at least the merit of making it possible to judge on a piecemeal basis the reality of government action over the past year. And what a year, indeed! I no longer count the number of times I have had to lend myself to this comment exercise according to the round-trips of this text; Also, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me if I take up a few figures to set the scene. In 2020, there were one million new applicants from food banks. One in six youth had to drop out of school and one in two did not eat to his hunger. Even before December, the country had a million more poor people. The 10 per cent of the poorest households have not seen any increase in income and billionaires have raised 170 billion. The investment contracted by 10%, that's normal. But the whole is a debacle – and the word is not messed up – a debacle that you, the Government and the majority, try to repaint in triumph by serinating us in all the tones that your mobilization is unprecedented, your unprecedented efforts, to limit the consequences of an unprecedented crisis as well. Because there has been a crisis, and you may argue that other countries have suffered more than ours, if others do better, it is because they have broken with neoliberal orthodoxy. In fact, it is not up to economists such as Mr Blanchard or Mr Pisani-Ferry who have not claimed more substantial and more targeted aid, as we called for. Yet, all year long, we had to go through your ads, live at their pace and wipe your lawsuits in bad faith every time we issued any criticism. Here comes the hour of accounts, we have them in front of us and, once again, do not displease you, they give us reason. Do you succeed in fulfilling your own commitments, the state's response to the crisis would not have been so miserable. But you've done some tricky tricks according to the correcting finance laws, and finally under-execute what you promised. It is therefore almost 36 billion that are missing from the fourth amending finance law. We don't see what such sums represent. It is 800,000 jobs at the median wage, including expenses, which could have been put at the service, for example, of ecological bifurcation. Moreover, these jobs would have produced an unprecedented revival of consumption, more popular, that is, a revival without even a recovery plan. And $36 billion is about what it takes to raise all social minima above the poverty line, automate their payment and extend the AHR to under 25 years of age. But while our most precarious fellow citizens were waiting for your help, others fell in love with you – I was talking about it earlier. The cumulative fortune of the billionaires jumped by 40% and the CAC40 paid in dividends the equivalent of 140% of its profits. This is a good record of your unprecedented efforts. In addition, there is a long-term competitiveness and employment tax credit (CICE) and other uncontrolled tax niches. For 222 of these 475 niches, we do not know the number of beneficiaries; 67 of these are not quantified at all; Moreover, the Court of Auditors notes – not only this year – that some are even in contradiction with the objectives of the public policies to which they are attached. And there are still about 30 of them that promote the use of fossil fuels, more than 15 billion euros a year, while we have just voted on the famous "Climate" law. In short, you promised us a crazy money, but we had the right to cross the street, and again. In summary, your 2020 balance sheet is a budget under-execution that is similar to an advertising diversion: all your offers are, as the formula says, "subject to conditions", except for the CAC40, "not cumulative with other promotions", except for the CAC40, "see conditions in participating stores" for all the others, "a credit commits you and must be refunded", by securing all the belt, except the CAC40. That is why, faithful to ourselves, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u352	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u353	It may seem futile, in these difficult times, to look at the past, especially when the health situation pushes us to focus on the present and the future. However, I believe that the review of this 2020 review is still useful, especially if the Government draws lessons from the past to better prepare 2022. Let us not underestimate the budget settlement law: it obliges the executive to report on its management to Parliament and also provides an opportunity to compare the intentions and promises announced with the results achieved. What justified the rejection of this text by our colleagues in the Senate? Contrary to what one might think, it is not only the cost of the "open bar" budget and the unprecedented level of deficit. The refusal is essentially based on the inseverity of the budget. The strongest criticism, which our group had already made at first reading, is the carry-over of appropriations: 36.2 billion appropriations carried over. These postponements make parliamentary authorization lose its full meaning. Underconsumption is one thing, but why carry forwards of such magnitude? The Court of Auditors recalls that it would have been possible for you to cancel these appropriations and thus avoid confusion between all budgetary years. In general, it is the entire assessment of the 2020 budget that is difficult to assess. The contours are blurred between funds from the emergency plan, the recovery plan, and regular appropriations. The balance sheet you are presenting to us is of course that of a state in great budgetary difficulty. The government debt stood at 115.7% of GDP and the deficit exceeded 9%. The figures speak for themselves: net expenditure in the general budget has increased by 46 billion euros compared to the initial forecast in the finance law. Of course, we are all aware that these unprecedented results are linked to the particular context we are experiencing. The health crisis has had unpredictable and irresistible consequences. Our group is aware of the Government's efforts to support businesses, communities and citizens. The fragility of public finances, prior to the crisis, has also contributed to increasing the seriousness of the situation. The accumulated budgetary failures have weighed heavily at the time of the crisis and continue to weigh at present. The failure of any government is to play the short term and propose to the successors the care of the necessary mastery. Our group has already recalled this during the public finance policy debate, despite the commitments, you have either not been able or able to restore our finances at the beginning of the quinquennium. The structural effort made during the first three years of the mandate was limited to 5 billion per year, whereas it would have been necessary to target 20 billion euros in order to actually restore the state's finances. Our public finances were therefore already very weakened at the time of the crisis. In addition, the measures you have deployed have had a substantial cost: 40 billion for the emergency plan alone. Another subject: this exceptional, justified and necessary budgetary response seems to us to be poorly deployed. In particular, we have had the opportunity to stress this on many occasions, it has not or has misunderstood the diversity of territorial realities. Apart from the effects of the pandemic alone, you have also made the choice, which can be defended and whose opportunity can be discussed, to abandon the control effort in favour of structural support. This budgetary flight therefore continued in 2021 and will continue in 2022. The separate draft sent to us at the last moment last week confirms this: an additional 10.8 billion for pilotable expenditure. If some increases go in the right direction, the key question remains: how to finance these measures, how to control the evolution curve? Given the state of play, the level of debt, the level of fiscal pressure, we understand the narrow margin of manoeuvre, not to say their non-existence. It remains to be hoped that the growth forecasts underlying the future budget will be realized, that interest rates will remain what they are, that the external trade deficit will not worsen, otherwise the budgetary situation could become truly unmanageable. Without wanting to teach us lessons, and while we are aware of the difficulty of things, our group will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u354	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u355	After opposing the PLF and the last PLFR in 2020, we will again and logically oppose this bill. Beyond the purely political aspect, which I will develop immediately afterwards, I will start by saying a word about the implementation of the budget, I mean its under-implementation: 31.6 billion euros not spent on the whole budget, 28,75 billion for the emergency mission alone in the face of the crisis, it is unprecedented and it is not without asking some questions about the democratic functioning of our Assembly in the budgetary discussions. It should be recalled that these appropriations were voted on in PLFR 4, which was examined in one night in deplorable conditions in which parliamentarians had to vote blindly on new emergency appropriations. These massive appropriations, which the Government had not been able to justify, have not, as expected, been spent and have been carried over massively to the year 2021, without any control from the Parliament. This method is not without questions about the sincerity of the budget or the place of Parliament, which, I would remind you, had only voted for EUR 6 billion for 2021 on the emergency mission. On the purely political side, we have regularly expressed our opposition to the policy put in place during the health crisis. While the long statement of reasons for this bill is more a self-satisfaction for the Government than an analysis of the policy carried out in 2020, I would like to recall some facts to put this into perspective. That 2020 was marked by an unprecedented deployment of massive financial resources, we will agree on this point: it is never before seen. It was necessary to accompany the economy, but not without conditions and without targeting. While the minimalist arrangements at the beginning of the crisis have gradually been replaced by more generous but also more general arrangements, it is the larger companies that have captured most of the aid, without having to commit themselves, for example, not to distribute dividends or not to lay off. What, then, is the effectiveness of such a massive deployment of financial resources, if they are not conditioned or targeted at those most in need? This massive support, not everyone has been entitled to it. Of course, I am talking about the poorest, who have suffered the most from this crisis: loss of wages of at least 16 per cent, unrenewed contracts or unindemnified persons. All these people have never seen the colour of this massive deployment. In the same way, the young people who filled the food banks last year, who were also among the most affected by the crisis, as my colleague Marie-George Buffet pointed out in her report, those too were left out. Such a dramatic social situation would have required a strong and massive response in the emergency, which you refused. Through these choices, you have further increased inequalities and allowed the number of poor to grow by more than a million people. A political mistake, but also a moral one. I will conclude this political picture by reminding you of your red thread since the beginning of the mandate: the pampering of the most affluent. In 2020, this has been said several times, the wealth of the 500 largest French fortunes has grown by 30%. Despite this indecent situation, you refused to ask these French for an effort; You refused to involve them in national solidarity when a large majority of French people asked for it, the very ones you asked for their efforts. Far from the health promenade described in the explanatory memorandum of the Settlement Act, 2020 was marked by a social crisis during which the state was not always up to the challenge. We deplore the political choices made during this time, which is why we reiterate our opposition to the policy implemented by opposing this settlement law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u356	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u357	The consideration of a settlement law by parliamentary assemblies is never an annoyance, that is to say the least. As we are currently revising our financial constitution, the Organic Law on Finance Laws (LOLF), in these walls, it is necessary to recall the extent to which the budgetary procedure, from the design of the PLF upstream to the approval of the downstream settlement law, is a highly democratic exercise. This year's Budget Settlement Bill allows Parliament to approve the government's accounts for $597 billion in spending and a public deficit of $178 billion. This "virtuous link" of the PLF to the PLR, as it is agreed to call it in the terminology of the LOLF, gives its full role of monitoring and evaluation to both assemblies and thus allows to involve citizens in the exercise through the voice of their elected representatives of the nation. In fact, since the beginning of the 15th Parliament, the elected representatives we have been involved in carrying out the Spring of Evaluation, which allows each Finance Commissioner to investigate, evaluate and make recommendations on a mission from the state budget. The review of the bill and the Spring Evaluation are two interrelated procedures, two twin procedures, on the basis of which Parliament must certainly guide the budgetary debate for the coming year. The 2020 financial year was undoubtedly a crisis exercise, an emergency budget that responded to a situation that was at least unprecedented, which no one – I say no one – could consider. Let us make it clear that, with this exercise, we have tripled our public deficit, increased our debt by 15 percentage points and permanently disrupted our public accounts recovery path. We must never prevent ourselves from telling the truth, however anxious they may be, because such expenses could be renewed. Let us imagine the serious consequences that tomorrow would have on our economy, an outbreak of the delta variant... That is why Parliament, through this democratic exercise, must take into account the gravity of the country's situation, regardless of the benches on which Members and Senators sit. We must be aware that excessive public debt and a continuous public deficit over several financial years could add a new crisis to the crisis. The current recovery in inflation in Europe could force the European Central Bank (ECB) to raise its rates and threaten our sustainability and access to financial markets. These threats, we must name them right now to avoid them better before they cost us expensive, far too expensive... Two perspectives seem to me to have to be considered in this bill. The first is that we need to consider urgent measures to restore our budgetary balance on the basis of the revenue side, with the aid, in particular, of the agreement reached in the G20 on the minimum taxation of multinationals and on the fight against the artificial location of taxable bases. These necessary measures must also be based on controlled control of the expenditure of our public administrations, whether it be social expenditure, the State budget or the expenditure of local authorities. Despite the situation, we must not prevent ourselves from returning to the sacrosanct budgetary balance. Such an approach does not exclude the ability to incur the right expenditure in the priority budget items. The state of our public finances must not conceal the urgent need to further strengthen our investment expenditure. This is particularly the case in the field of health: we must consider the remuneration of health workers as an investment expenditure, because it is essential to value it. This is the subject of the Ségur de la santé, to which I fully subscribe and which was able to respond in large part to the grievances of the profession, as the Minister of Solidarity and Health once again pointed out this morning. In the field of education, higher education and research, it is also essential that France invest in order to generate a dynamic and innovative activity. The Research Programming Act 2021-2030, adopted in November 2020, is partly in line with this ambition. Finally, and here we have a historic responsibility, we must invest heavily in environmental expenditure, particularly in favour of the energy transition. It should be remembered that according to the Environmental Transition Agency (ADEME), 1% of our GDP should be devoted every year to the energy transition. In our capacity as parliamentarians, despite our political differences, our ideological positions, our intimate convictions, we urge the executive power and hope that it will always meet this requirement, year after year, fiscal year after fiscal year. It is on this condition that the consequences of the health crisis can only be a bad memory and that the State will be able to chart the best future for our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The LaREM Group will vote on the draft regulation of the 2020 budget and reiterate its support for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u358	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u359	Yesterday was a symbolic day. In France, an average employee must work between 1 January and 19 July to finance public expenditure and pay his social contributions, taxes and taxes. Over a year, the French only receive the fruit of their work five months out of twelve! It is therefore legitimate to ask where their money goes. In 2020, public finances experienced an unprecedented deterioration in the history of the Fifth Republic: a public deficit of 178 billion, an explosion in public debt, which reached 116 % of GDP at the end of 2020, and a public expenditure that far exceeded 60 % of national wealth. You will tell me that the health situation explains in large part the deterioration of our accounts: public administrations have effectively absorbed more than 80% of the economic effects of the crisis and we can only welcome, despite major shortcomings, the establishment of policies to support businesses. However, the crisis does not relieve Emmanuel Macron and the Government of their responsibility for the financial slippage of 2020: if the French had to get into debt to save our economy, it was because you were unable to anticipate and manage the epidemic. How many tens of billions of euros could we have saved if you had followed the common sense recommendations of the National Rally in January 2020? These accounts reflect the slate that you leave to future generations for failing to anticipate and manage the health crisis. They also reveal a financial slippage that cannot be attributed solely to the health crisis or its calamitous management, as evidenced by the increase of at least 7 billion ordinary expenditure. Deputy Minister, France is the country with the highest rate of compulsory levies. However, public services are deteriorating, social injustices are increasing, and the state is weakening. So I repeat my initial question: where is the money going? In fact, you're wasting our taxes and financing your money without serving the interests of the French. I will therefore give you three ways of saving money in order to identify the tens of billions of euros which, in future budgets, could be used to rebuild the public hospital, so important for our health, to create places in prisons, so essential for our security, to invest in strategic sectors, so precious for our sovereignty, or to reduce massively the taxes of companies on our soil to defend our jobs and reindustrialize the country. Firstly, France's contribution to the European Union. In 2021, it amounts to 26.9 billion, 25% more than in 2020, and we receive only about 10 billion euros in return. What a scam! At the expense of the taxpayer, your European ideology finances relocations to Eastern Europe, subsidies to Turkey and an out-of-ground technocracy that despises democracy. Secondly, the cost of massive immigration, which you always refuse to quantify and which weighs on the budget of the State, social security or departments. French taxes don't have to finance your immigration madness! Thirdly: major tax and social frauds, which amount to between 40 and 150 billion a year! Do you find it normal to weigh taxes on the French who work on a daily basis rather than on tax escapes and multinationals who use tax optimisation? Do you find it normal to want to impose on the French a reform that reduces their pensions and will make them work longer while 15% of the pensions paid abroad are fraudulent? Do you think it's normal to depend more and more drugs when there are nearly 2 million fake vital cards in circulation? You have managed to establish a QR code, which is considered inviolable, at the entrance of cafes and restaurants: what are you waiting for to do the same with our vital cards in order to stop this indecent fraud? There are many other proposals for savings. So, Minister Delegate, you who are constantly giving economic lessons to the whole world,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u360	You could learn a few!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u361	... first look at your balance sheet: the good managers you are responsible for an unprecedented collapse of our public accounts and the worsening of the social and economic crisis in our country. For all these reasons, we will vote against Budget 2020's proposed Regulations. You can see this: the National Rally offers common sense solutions to clean up public accounts, to recover the money of the French, which has been wasted for too long, and to finally put the tax of the French at the service of their daily lives and their future. You could have been inspired by it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u362	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u363	The general discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we all wish to prepare ourselves for the days ahead. I therefore propose that we conclude the discussion of this text quickly and I urge you not to unnecessarily overburden our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u364	I now call the clauses of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at the same text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u365	Mr Charles de Courson's amendment No. 1 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u366	Mr Charles de Courson's Amendment No 6 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u367	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u368	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-07-20-E1013.u369	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the draft law on the management of the health crisis. The meeting is adjourned.
