ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Aurélien Pradié, Damien Abad and others seeking more justice and autonomy for persons with disabilities (No. 4423, 4500).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u2	Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u3	Anthony is 30 years old; He lives in a couple with Andrea, who is 24 years old. Both are Autistic Asperger, and both receive the Allowance for Adults with Disabilities (AAH). Anthony will soon begin work as a contractor in the public service. Her partner will then lose her allowance for adults with disabilities, although she is looking for a job. Sylvie is an employee; she is married to a person with a mental disability. By providing the same work as her colleagues in a specialized institution, and working thirty-five hours, her husband receives only 715 euros a month, and will not receive the allowance for adults with disabilities next year. Fabienne is 42 years old; She's in a situation of intellectual disability. She works in an establishment and service of help through work (ESAT) and lives with her parents in the centre of Bordeaux. She wants to integrate L'Orée, an inclusive habitat project. He was denied the disability compensation benefit (PCH). Roger fell from a roof to 41; He suffered a head injury. He filed an application for disability compensation, which he was denied. He suffers from memory disorders that hinder his daily activities, medical background and social relations. Fabienne and Roger are not alone: nearly 60000 of our fellow citizens suffer the same injustice and are excluded from accompaniment because of their mental illness or disorder. Anthony and Sylvie are not alone: nearly 200000 of our fellow citizens suffer this unbearable double penalty and this price of love. No one can ignore these realities. These injustices have been waiting for almost fifteen years to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u4	It's time to take action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u5	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u6	These flaws have been the subject of dozens of reports, dozens of evaluations, hundreds of unanimous positions taken by persons with disabilities and dozens of opinions of the European and international authorities, which keep reminding France to order. Our bill makes it possible to move forward: it is no longer a matter of waiting tomorrow, and still tomorrow, for thousands of our fellow citizens with disabilities to regain their full dignity. Dignity is not waiting. If this text comes from the group The Republicans, remember that before us, our colleagues Marie-George Buffet, Jeanine Dubie, Yannick Favennec-Becot or Stéphane Peu had worked for the same cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u7	Good thing they were here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u8	In our assembly, the cause of disability goes through the commitment of many of us. As far as I am concerned, I would certainly never have had a political commitment without this fight for the dignity of people affected by disability – everyone has their own history.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u9	Dignity and autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u10	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In November 2018, almost three years ago to the day, we were here defending a bill to improve the reception of children with disabilities at school and the status of accompanying children. I keep – like many of you, I think – a painful memory of how this text was rejected brutally and without debate. In this episode, the majority – let us say clearly – gave a poor picture of the parliamentary debate. Let's not repeat this shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u11	Inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u12	Some topics deserve better than political debates and sterile conflicts. A constructive choice has guided us since the beginning of the review of the bill; It was fed by twenty-five hours of hearings, dozens of actors auditioned and a trip to the Seine-et-Marne departmental council, as well as direct exchanges with the actors of the departmental houses of disabled persons (MDPH), associations and persons with disabilities. Our text contains solid and concrete solutions. It opens three major projects for disability. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The first of these projects – you know him – is the deconjugation of the allowance for disabled adults. Indeed, the way in which this allowance is calculated and capped hinders people's autonomy by keeping them in an unjust and unacceptable financial dependence on their spouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u13	Ungrateful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u14	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Such dependence is particularly difficult to live in; It leads to a sense of worthlessness and loss of dignity. This absurd method of calculation often results in an unbearable price of love for people with disabilities: many of them refuse to marry or live with their spouse, as they risk seeing their allowance decline or lose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u15	The majority should look at reality in the face!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u16	Who can accept such situations, contrary to our principles? By maintaining a method of calculating and capping the allowance for adults with disabilities based on household income, France is violating all its human rights commitments – the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, before which our country was interviewed last August, recalled. This situation has been legitimately denounced by persons with disabilities and their representative associations for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u17	And the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u18	It has been the subject of hard work by many of our colleagues. The last debate on the subject had turned to psychodrama, with great reinforcement of blocked vote and brutal force, as never before, of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u19	A shame for democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u20	No one has forgotten it among us, and no one has forgotten it among the French. In that regard, the Government was being stunned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u21	Not just on this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u22	Madam Secretary of State, you do not want to hear that this injustice is unbearable; You don't want to hear that she's contemptuous and violent. As long as it lasts, we will fight tirelessly. The second stage of the proposed law is the enlargement and modernisation of disability compensation. If primary sectarianism does not prevail, we should find here a gathering ground. Indeed, we observe a major lack of access to the PCH, in particular to its human aid component, for people with altered mental, mental or cognitive functions: they are the great excluded from compensation – this is a serious thing. These people need stimulation, assistance and accompaniment that are not provided for in the disability compensation benefit. Leguay's report – which you yourself have ordered, Madam Secretary of State – confirms it word for word. The reform of this provision is a long-standing commitment of the Government; the commitment was made by the Prime Minister in 2017, then by the President of the Republic in 2021; Everyone shares the observation, but beyond the observation, nothing: not a concrete decision, not a real measure, but studies, "action sheets", tables to say what we already know. Madam Secretary of State, you and the Government procrastinate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u23	Speech, no action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u24	We want to act: it is the ambition of our bill to end the blabla and communications operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u25	Enough of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u26	Results!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u27	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u28	The third and final stage of the text is the humanisation of administrative procedures for our citizens with disabilities. The subject is nothing but annoyance, when we know that 95% of the decisions of the departmental houses of persons with disabilities are made on the list, and that only 5% of the applications are presented and discussed in the session. In no less than 83% of cases, the competent committee takes a decision that engages the lives of people without ever having met them; They are heard in only 7% of cases, and are only evaluated at their place of residence in 4% of cases. This situation feeds deep misunderstandings and a divorce of trust against which we must fight. All actors, including in the departmental houses of disabled people, regret this state of affairs which produces nothing good, but only remedies. It is up to the law to set a course – that is the ambition of Article 3 of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u30	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Throughout the preparation of the text, I wanted to work in a responsible and respectful state of mind. This state of mind was mine; It was also that of my political group and of all the opposition groups that agreed to work with us to improve and enrich the text – all except the La République en marche group and one of its docile allies. You refused any dialogue. Madam Secretary of State, you yourself have refused, purely and simply, to be heard in the National Assembly in order to prepare the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u31	What a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u32	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In the Committee on Social Affairs, the majority did not propose anything, corrected nothing, changed nothing. You have methodically and coldly deleted each article from the bill: Article 1, deletion; Article 2, deletion; Article 3, deletion; Article 4, deletion; Article 5, deletion; Article 6, deletion; Article 7, deletion – seven times, deletion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u33	You have a calculator instead of the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u34	The masks are falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, UDI-I, LT, FI and GDR groups]] What is this detestable method? Do you not think that the burning issue of deconjugation of the allowance for adults with disabilities deserves better than an amendment to abolish it? Do you not think that accompaniment of the psychically ill by the benefit of compensation of the handicap deserves better than an amendment of abolition?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u36	What a heartless majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u37	Do you not think that the humanisation of administrative procedures for persons with disabilities deserves better than an amendment to abolish it? [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I make it clear that the method you have chosen is a dirty method. Rarely has a political power been so technocratic and disembodied in its approach to major social issues. In 2005, Jacques Chirac had the political courage to make disability a priority and to defend a great law. Now it is the rule of Excel tables, studies of all kinds, hollow words and round-the-cook politics. You seem unable to really change things. My anger is up to your method and your contempt for our text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] This morning we are opening an essential debate for a few million French people. Shaving this text would be an unforgivable mistake – not for me, not for my political group, not for the opposition: it would be an unforgivable mistake for the French. I can't imagine you're making this mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u38	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u39	To achieve a true society of choice, this is the thread that has guided the actions of the Government as a whole, always following the same ambition: to simplify and improve the daily lives of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u40	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u41	Let us remember: since 2017, we have held five interdepartmental disability committees under the auspices of the Prime Minister in order to embark on all common law policies; We also held the National Conference on Disability, under the auspices of the President of the Republic, in February 2020. Why? To build our public policies with people and for people. These are the meaning and philosophy that guide disability policy, which is delivered in a pragmatic and operational way on the ground. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This policy has led to the opening of new rights: this is evidenced by the restoration, in March 2019, of the right to vote for all major protected persons, in order to ensure their full citizenship and full access to the right; There are 350,000 people who can now vote and participate in the democratic life of our country. For thirty years, families and associations have been waiting for this strong act of respect for human rights, equal to any citizen. Another major step forward is the granting of life rights: people with irreversible disabilities no longer have to multiply administrative procedures. This simplification is a fundamental change, which gives people their indispensable dignity. In order to ensure that these rights are truly effective for all, we have worked to simplify the procedures. It is thanks to the involvement of the deputies of the presidential majority, on the basis of the report "Easier life", on the basis of the work done by visiting each CDMH, that we have built a policy that is as close as possible to the needs of the families. This progress is accompanied by a major effort to reduce the time taken to process the files of the departmental houses of disabled people, which are managed by the local authorities – for, let us not forget, the departments are the leaders of solidarity policies. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] We did not wait for you, Mr. MP, to continue this dialogue with the departments still in this method of co-construction adopted for four years to work hand in hand in full cross-sectional population responsibility and in respect of the teams...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u42	We're calling, we're doing a "action sheet"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u43	We're going to get a green number!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u44	Colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u45	...who have been injured by your assertions of dehumanization of their policy. It is men and women who are doing their best to ensure that rights are granted. The society of choice is also about providing everyone with the support they need. We have developed inclusive housing solutions, always with the departments, in order to give the possibility to people who wish to live in their homes as part of a co-location, while being accompanied as much as necessary by the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy (CNSA). We also take into account those with the most severe disorders by deploying places of life specifically adapted to adults with more complex needs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] I also want to talk to you about the school, Congressman. While you were in constant criticism, we profoundly changed our school model so that the school of the Republic would be able to accommodate all these children: it was almost 400,000 students with disabilities, including 41,000 autistic children, who went on their way from school to school at the start of 2020, when they were previously excluded, or almost 20% more students in school than in 2017. Our action goes further: we have also introduced twenty-five hours of training for new teachers on the diversity of types of disability – there too, it had never been done –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u46	It all starts with you, it's well known! And everything will end with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u47	... and reinforced and secured the status of accompanying students with disabilities, the AESH. None of them are no longer recruited through an assisted contract: they now benefit from a fixed-term contract, and most often from an indefinite contract: you will agree with me that we are far from dehumanizing politics, to use your terms. I heard the other day say in your political family that "the first dignity was that of work. Once again, Member of Parliament, since 2017, we have developed a number of mechanisms that allow us to have a professional life like any other: job coaching, accompanied employment, implementation of disability references, help with hiring – because it's true, professional activity is at the heart of the demands of people with disabilities and at the heart of our society project. This will led us, in 2021, to propose a structural reform of the establishments and services of help through work to make it a pivotal point of access to employment in the ordinary environment, in a logic of path, security and career development. I could continue for a long time this enumeration, witness to the profound transformation that the presidential majority is proud to have led. Far from a list at the Prévert, it shows concrete action, so that people with disabilities are citizens in their own right, not in their own right, in all fields of society. For far from a political posture, we are the government and the presidential majority who deeply believe that ensuring the full participation of people is not a moral duty or an obligation, but a vision of society that is to think that this inclusive society improves the quality of life of all our fellow citizens. Our country can be proud to lead an ambitious policy for our citizens with disabilities. Every year, the community spends €52 billion on disability, or 2.3% of GDP, which places us at the third European level, with an amount higher than the combined budgets of the Ministries of Justice, Culture, Foreign Affairs and the Interior. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore in this context, in the face of an assessment of the presidential majority built with and for persons with disabilities, that this bill comes into play. It is not new and partly reflects the articles of your colleague Jeanine Dubie's bill, which will be considered in the Senate next week. Curious procedure that of doubling a text under consideration in Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u48	It's not over! We'll come back again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u49	I will be short on the AAH, because the Government has already had the opportunity to rule on this subject on many occasions, and will have it next week in the Senate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] The allowance for adults with disabilities, established by the Act of 30 June 1975, is intended to ensure decent living conditions for persons with disabilities with the lowest resources. Like all social minimums of common law, like the RSA and the ASPA, the solidarity allowance for the elderly, the AAH is based on national solidarity, more specifically on solidarity between spouses recalled by the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u50	That's not true! Read Simone Veil again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u51	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u52	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I say a social minimum, because one of the arguments put forward in the discussion is the attachment of the AAH to the Social Security Code, which would effectively exclude its nature as a social minimum. This reasoning does not, for the sake of the simple reason that ASPA is also covered by the Social Security Code. Therefore, according to your reasoning, the ASPA should also be deconjugated and the spouse's income should no longer be taken into account in order to deliver this minimum old age? We can all see once again the stalemate that led to the deconjugation of the AAH and the automatic effects it would have on other social minima. If deconjugation is now – and to the general surprise –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u53	Mr. President Abad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u54	...at the heart of the Republicans' political DNA, in coherence, launch this debate for our entire tax system! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. "Mr. Bruno Fuchs also applauds]] I fully share the desire to strengthen people's purchasing power. That is why we have increased the AAH by 100 euros net per month to 904 euros. So we're spending 11.1 billion euros, which is 2 billion more than in 2017. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Your proposal, however, reduces the purchasing power of 44,000 people and arrows the profits to the most affluent couples. On the other hand, with the presidential majority, we have carried out a more just, redistributive and operational reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u55	Then why are all the associations against you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u56	The 2022 Finance Bill provides for a new method of calculating the AAH as of 1 January 2022. The replacement of the 20% reduction on the spouse's income by a flat-rate reduction of EUR 5000 will allow 120000 people to benefit from a monthly increase of EUR 110 on average, up to EUR 186. Persons without work and whose spouse earns the minimum wage will retain their allowance at a full rate of €904.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u57	And the dignity of people, how do you count it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u58	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] It is an additional investment by the State for more social justice, to the tune of 185 million euros, which will allow 60% of the beneficiaries in couples to retain the benefit at full rate. You see, we're doing what we committed ourselves to. I would also like to raise with you a fundamental issue: the care of women victims of violence. Thanks to the provisions we have studied with the family allowance funds, within ten days these women have access to the AAH without having to justify their situation. Let us turn now to the new provisions you are proposing for the disability compensation benefit. It is intended to cover the additional costs of any kind related to disability in everyday life. This may be a need for human assistance, technical assistance, housing or vehicle improvements, additional costs resulting from transport... In order to respond specifically to the needs and aspirations of the disabled person, this individualized service is being studied by the multidisciplinary teams of the CDMH – for which the departments are responsible. As you recalled, the President of the Republic committed himself at the National Conference on Disability to an effective adaptation of PCH to mental disability and neurodevelopment disorders. I know that many people with disabilities today cannot access the support that allows them full access to autonomy. These specific needs are particularly evident in the human assistance component of the PCH, which often helps to ensure that people have access to housing, that they take care of their health and that they participate in social life. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR and SOC groups. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Even though we have largely changed the scope of the PCH to guarantee new rights, it is essential to meet the legitimate expectations of individuals and their families, because contrary to what I have read, Mr. MP, the Government and the presidential majority are concerned with the handling of the spectrum of autism and mental disorders – and not since yesterday, not since the political opportunity of a parliamentary niche, but since the election of the President of the Republic, since we are in a position to change things!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u59	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u60	[[Same movements]] To this end, work has been carried out for more than a year with representative associations, under the auspices of Dr. Leguay.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u61	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u62	They led in July 2021 to the submission of a report proposing to change the regulations – because there is no need for a law to change these laws. According to our method, that of co-construction with the territories, these proposals resulting from the extensive and consensual work of the associations were to be shared with the departmental councils, leaders of social policies and funders of the PCH. It was also a question of being able to test the new criteria proposed in the light of the expertise of the field players, namely the departmental houses of the disabled, the local branches of the associations and the support services. This is why three precursor territories have been identified to provide a comprehensive response to people with mental, cognitive or neurodevelopmental disabilities: the Gironde, the Ardennes and the Vosges. I was on Monday in Gironde to launch, with the departmental councils and associations, the work to better assess the needs of people, faithful to my method of co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u63	So build with Parliament too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u64	Talk to the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u65	The aim is, by February 2022, to build concrete solutions to improve support for autonomy. I've done this job the way I've done it since the beginning of the quinquennium. This is evidenced by the signature of new commitments by President Bussereau to the Élysée, in the presence of the President of the Republic, for our common road map for simplification and improvement of deadlines. I am continuing this partnership with President Sauvadet, whose commitment I welcome, not only on our work with the CDMH, but also on the PCH. So yes, the government is committed to it: at the end of this work, we will adapt the regulations – no need for the law –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u66	We don't need Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u67	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... to take into account the changes necessary for better access to rights and the reform of evaluation, which will be widespread throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u68	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u69	This is our method: starting from the ground, building with the departments and testing the solutions proposed by the experts in responsibility. This is the opposite of this bill. The Commission intends to extend to the concepts of assistance and support for overall autonomy the reference framework for the PCH, without any prior consultation with the departments. Without this, you create a source of complexity and inequity, which would lead to the lengthening of the investigation procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u70	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u71	Because, as usual, we did not wait for you to improve the compensation of disability situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u72	You can repeat a lie ten times, it won't be a truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u73	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Since 2017, I remind you, we have significantly changed the scope of the compensation, in close collaboration with the departments, with the creation of the parenting PCH, for the acts of the daily life of parents with disabilities, the integration of meal preparation times into the compensation plans, the removal of the age barrier of 75 years. We have also put life rights in place. We are continuing with two new projects: the definition of the framework of a PCH adapted to the oversight, a great demand of families, under the auspices of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities (CNCPH), and, as I explained, the deployment of in vivo work, in the field, relating to the improvement of compensation for persons with mental, cognitive or neurodevelopmental disabilities. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The method of the presidential majority and the Government will always be to prefer dialogue to the invective and to go beyond the dividing lines in order to find pragmatic solutions, to do with the other and not against the other, with the people and for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u74	It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] When the President of the Republic entrusted me with the task of leading his top five-year priority, it was to carry an ambitious and proactive policy: to allow the full participation of persons with disabilities in a more inclusive society that finally adapts, not the other way around. Beyond the word of inclusion, often gallvaudé, this mission has a profound meaning: to contribute to the advent of a society where differences are no longer hidden or excluded, but instead allow everyone to find their place in the midst of all, in a concrete and real way.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, it is only nine and thirty hours and we have a long day to spend together: I invite you to approach things with more composure, otherwise I would be obliged to suspend the sitting for the time for everyone to calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u77	In the general debate, Mr. Stéphane Viry spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u78	The proposal for a law by the Republicans Group, which we will be debating, aims to provide concrete support to those who live and accompany disability on a daily basis. This proposal is an essential parliamentary contribution to this so important issue. Through this text, we simply relay associations, caregivers and families by setting three simple objectives: to broaden the scope of the disability compensation benefit, to deconjugate the allowance to adults with disabilities and to humanise the relations between the beneficiaries of these aids and the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u79	Humanize!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I can testify to the general fatigue experienced in committee, both on the right and on the left, last week, when the presidential majority swept our proposals without moving anything in return, but criticizing an alleged lack of realism. However, the testimonies that our work is based on are very real. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] First, Madam Secretary of State, we want to expand PCH to include mental disabilities, dys and neurological disorders, because it is unbearable to ignore our fellow citizens with cognitive disorders such as autism or Alzheimer's. This type of disability concerns us all, as the figures show: on average, we all live eight years of our life in a situation of dependence, finding aggravated by Alzheimer's disease – 250,000 new cases are diagnosed each year. Locking PCH into an outdated concept of disability is a serious moral mistake, I say despite our disagreement. We must change it immediately and finance this development for the benefit of the departments, the services falling within their competence. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill and Caroline Fiat also applaud]] [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] Secondly, we want to deconjugate the AAH, so that the couple is no longer a source of dependency and insecurity. As the spouse earns more than 1020 euros net per month, the allowance decreases, so that with a salary of 1,600 euros, it falls from 900 to 200 euros; In addition to physical dependence, there is a financial dependency. The reduction solution proposed by the Government completely ignores the desire of associations and families: rather than reducing from 1020 euros, the allowance will begin to melt from 1500 euros. It is precisely this iniquitous mechanism of indexation on the spouse's income that is no longer tolerated and that we must change. Thirdly, the loss of the social link with the administration stimulates the incomprehension and anger of our fellow citizens, lost in an increasingly technocratic environment. To remedy this, we want to make the refusal of a benefit conditional on an interview with the applicant, because we can no longer treat women and men who use national solidarity as abstract administrative data. We want to bridge the social divide that divides our country, and it is our duty as parliamentarians who have the confidence of our fellow citizens to make public service accessible to all, especially people with disabilities. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu and Mrs. Caroline Fiat applaud]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We are not alone in asking for these measures, Madam Secretary of State. Since yesterday, as you recalled, the Senate has been considering the Communist Group's bill to deconjugate the AAH. It is precisely this text that the Government and the majority carefully emptied of its substance here last June. In this area, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are followers of recidivism! In three years, you have already rejected three bills aimed at deconjugating the AAH, not to mention our bill on the inclusion of students with disabilities, which you torpedoed in 2018. In committee, all the political groups welcomed our proposal; All except those of the majority. While by this text we could do a trans-party work and show that parliamentary dialogue is healthy and motivated by good intentions in the service of the general interest, our fellow citizens will again have to suffer from the unreasonable obstinacy of the presidential majority. [["Yes! and other exclamations on the benches of the LR group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your hijacking is incomprehensible. It cannot be explained by financial considerations, since the President of the Republic is marked by excessive prodigiality which is timelyly revealed within a few months of election deadlines. As for the lack of consultation with the social and medical partners, you will also not be able to invoke it after four bills on the subject and all the preparatory work, including twenty hours of hearings just for the text we are considering! [["You don't like people with disabilities! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You, who claim to be a union of political differences around reason, have not tabled a single amendment in good faith. Rather than advancing the text, your only goal was to torpedo it. You just put him in check. We therefore struggle to understand your position, because you are not consistent with yourself! At the end of the day, your stubbornness may weigh heavily on the daily lives of those who will have to continue to live alone in order not to lose their income, and of all those who have not even been able to make their voices heard before being deprived of national solidarity. Expectations are high, and the disappointment associated with the rejection of this text will be followed by a deep fatigue of having to testify again without having the feeling of being listened to. We mustn't wait! Our parliamentary – and not technocratic or regulatory – mission is also to change life when it is no longer possible to guarantee a dignified life for all! The majority accuse us of lack of realism, but the social divide that divides the country is very real. It has been exacerbated by the impression of abandonment, the feeling of not being considered in political action and of suffering from all the dysfunctions of the public service. Today, we have an opportunity to redress an injustice. In committee, you were only certain of one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: you would not bring this text to fruition. I was hoping for another attitude at the dawn of this session; Obviously, that will not be the case. Yet your ambiguous position is not based on any solid basis. There is no stake in public finances, nor is there a lack of dialogue and consultation with the social partners. In truth, by your arguments and amendments, you do not accept your refusal. You are seeking to clear your customs and your false arguments are proof of this. The same could not be said of MODEM, which had openly opposed deconjugalization, thereby opening the door to any constructive debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Apart from the majority, all groups humbly set aside their differences at the service of a higher interest, on the left as well as on the right. We therefore await the proposals of the majority – if you have any that are not mere technocracy! We hope that you will be able to formulate here, through constructive legislative work, a concrete response to the flaws that undermine the disability support system. [["He's right!" on the benches of the LR group]] It is deplorable that we, the opposition political groups, should each in turn beg your interest in major concerns, of which we are only the voice carriers. You are reacting, Madam Secretary of State, as if it were a whim or opportunism on our part! How can you claim this, given the cause that we have today? How many laps will we have to run in front of you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u81	Was it impossible to act before?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u82	What should be the next group to pass in order for you to understand that in the degraded social context that we know, it is a priority to listen to the intermediate bodies? When will you understand that marital solidarity cannot be applied blindly to those who are irreparably far from the world of work? When will you accept that it is not enough to invoke the civil code to deprive women and men of the only resource that makes their dignity, emancipation and, in short, their ability to exist? Our collective fight for equality in disability began in 1975 with the creation of the AAH and has continued since, as in 2005, with the law against the exclusion of disability. It would be illusory to believe that the goal has been achieved, and to lie that it all started in 2017. Equality is conquered by constant legislative work, vigilant and, above all, listening,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u83	That's the right method!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u84	...work that your government is constantly contradicting. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, IUD-I, LT and GDR groups. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] Therefore, out of respect for the millions of people affected by disability who are waiting for change, and in the spirit of the 1975 and 2005 laws, it is our duty to vote together in favour of this text drafted and defended by Aurélien Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u85	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u86	Among the subjects that must bring us all together beyond our political sensitivities, disability is surely one of the most emblematic as it is shared. We have all been confronted on several occasions with the situation of a person with a disability or his or her family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u87	It's okay, he's gonna vote for the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u88	We have been alerted by an elected official, in a market or sometimes directly to our permanence. In turn and often simultaneously, we are told about the family, financial, administrative and social difficulties faced by persons with disabilities and their environment. "My loved ones don't understand my son's behavioral disorders, they say it's a matter of education. "The MDHC has reviewed my daughter's disability assessment: it is at 48%. She'd have to be more stupid than 2% if I was to get help? "It is followed by a SESSAD – a special education and home care service – but lacking professionals. I found a kine, but he's 30 kilometers away and he only makes appointments during the day. How do I work when I'm alone to take care of it? "I'm 52 years old and for the past two years, I've been developing an extremely scalable Parkinson's disease. I spend my life in my kitchen, because the bedroom and the bathroom are upstairs and I can't access it anymore. "Since my spouse had a stroke, I don't live anymore, I don't have a social life. And the papers to fill out are crazy! Must have done Sciences Po? These are some sentences that I have heard and that have profoundly marked me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u89	That's proof it's not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u90	In the face of this, what should be our answer? A great humility first, in view of the distress of the people concerned. Secondly, the conviction that, in the image of disability, there is no one-size-fits-all or magic solution. There are almost as many different situations as people with disabilities. Work must be done on both inclusion, housing, simplification of administrative procedures, financial resources, harmonisation of assessments, support for carers, availability of professionals, number of places in reception facilities, and so on. Every time, there is a need to discuss with the actors in the field, the first of which is the departmental councils. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] This approach, humble above all but also multi-directional, in my view guided the action of the Government, in particular Sophie Cluzel; I would like to take this opportunity to thank him. Rarely will real rights for people with disabilities have progressed as much as in recent years. I am not talking about theoretical rights, which it is easy to enshrine in the law, but about rights to which those who need them really have access. Nevertheless, much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u91	Become Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u92	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The rapporteur refers to the fact that, in the allocation of the PCH, mental or cognitive functions have been altered: on the merits, you are right, this problem exists and is still too poorly dealt with, probably because it is difficult to identify. On the other hand, on the other hand, you are wrong: it is not necessary to go through the law to respond to it, the regulatory framework suffices. However, given the complexity of the topic, steps must be taken to define objective criteria and assess funding needs in relation to departments in successive stages. It is this consultation that is sorely lacking in your initiative; On the contrary, this is the whole meaning, I believe, of the experiment that the State Secretariat launched with the departments of Gironde, Ardennes and Vosges. [["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] [["So what? » on the benches of the LR group]] You also refer, Mr. Rapporteur, to the deconjugalization of the AAH; I'll tell you about my anger. On the face of it, giving each person with a disability more financial means, on an individual basis, can only give rise to the hope of the persons concerned. But to allocate more money on an individual basis is certainly to reduce the resources allocated collectively...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u93	Ah! Like the removal of the ISF and the flat tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u94	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] ... to finance AESHs, to develop inclusive housing, to create reception places in specialized institutions, for example. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Then why did the Republicans or the Socialists, when they were in charge, not set up deconjugalization? Simply because the individual allocation of the AAH without taking into account the household's income would ultimately cast doubt on the whole allocation of the various solidarity allowances.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u95	That's not true! It's not a social minimum!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u96	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [["We take it! » on the benches of the LR group]] The debate is almost philosophical, and certainly political. If you are convinced, I invite you to lead him during the presidential campaign. But, as you keep spreading over the so-called financial irresponsibility of this government, you will explain to our fellow citizens that this choice will involve an additional EUR 1 billion for the deconjugation of the AAH alone, and an additional 10 to 20 billion each year if all allocations are now allocated individually, regardless of the household's resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u97	We are on the side of people with disabilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u98	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] [["It's shameful! » on several benches of the LR group]] Finally, and this is certainly the most shocking thing, the introduction of a bill at first reading at four months after the end of the last session of the legislature has only one goal: to make low politics because it has no chance of completing its parliamentary path and being adopted. You know perfectly well, Mr rapporteur, that the texts not adopted at the end of the legislative term fall automatically. To inspire hope knowing that your proposal has no chance of being born is at best irresponsible, at worst cynical! It is all the more so since we debated this issue here a few months ago, and the Government committed itself to adding – what it did – corrective measures of inequality in future bills on finance and social security financing. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The Democrats, as you will have understood, will not vote for this text which is not up to what our compatriots with disabilities are entitled to wait for!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u99	What did you do under the previous legislatures?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u100	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u101	A little humanism, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u102	With the proposed law on more justice and autonomy for persons with disabilities, due to Aurélien Pradié, the issue of deconjugalization of the AAH is again brought to the attention of the National Assembly. Almost four months after the examination of Jeanine Dubie's bill and the Government's recourse to the blocked vote, the expectations of those concerned remain immense. Madam Secretary of State, I can still hear you fustigating the demagogy of the opposition. Do not be mistaken as an adversary: it is not a question of making this question the pretext of a fight between oppositions and the majority. We only echo an explicit demand from people with disabilities, mobilized on 16 September at the call of twenty-two large organizations and associations. Several institutions also supported the reform: in December 2020, the Ombudsman had been very clear in that regard, considering that the conditions under which the AAH was awarded penalized persons with disabilities who wished to found a family and thus contravened the provisions of article 23 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) shares this observation; The United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which monitors the implementation of the Convention by States parties, advocates this reform in its observations published on 14 September. The flat-rate reduction of 5000 euros on the spouse's income, for an estimated average gain of 110 euros per month, which you expect from January onwards, will only apply to 120,000 couples out of the 270,000 benefiting from the AAH: the number of losers will therefore far exceed that of 44,000 that you invoke to refuse deconjugation. This persistent refusal is a political mistake by the Government and the majority. Beyond its cost, this claim has indeed become a societal and social justice issue: it is about the financial independence and autonomy of people with disabilities. It is not a claim to the monopoly of the heart to understand their profound humiliation of being kept in a dependency that waits for their dignity and can be seriously damaging in certain contexts. Thus, women with disabilities are more victims of violence by their partners than others: according to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, one third of them are in this case. The AAH can no longer continue to be familyized on the pretext that its reform would favour affluent couples, reinforce inequalities and challenge our social model. It would be time to examine the foundations of our national solidarity, the place we want to give to persons with disabilities so that they can live in dignity and independently of their spouse. The disability is individual: society is now ready to recognize this allowance as an individual income of existence. There lies true emancipation. [[Applause from the SOC and LR groups. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, be pragmatic. Show yourself the minister of these real rights that you invoke: instead of repeating our disappointment of 17 June, listen to people with disabilities, support this reform. You can no longer allow this gap between your speech and your actions to continue, more focused on reducing public spending than on the autonomy of people with disabilities. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u103	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u104	A few weeks after the examination of the bill by Jeanine Dubie and Stéphane Peu, we find ourselves again having to decide on social benefits for people with disabilities, on the occasion of the examination of the bill by Aurélien Pradié in the framework of the parliamentary day of the group The Republicans. This text is structured around two major proposals: deconjugation of the AAH and extension of the PCH to persons with neurological or psychological disorders. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] [[Approvals on the benches of the LR and GDR groups]] On the AAH, the position expressed in June by most of the members of the Agir Group together did not change. It is in line with our constant commitment, since 2017, to individualising social benefits. The AAH does not constitute a social minimum like the others, but an individual support for emancipation which, as such, should be understood in the light of the situation of the beneficiary alone and not that of his home. For the sake of consistency, our group will therefore vote in favour of the provisions aimed at deconjugating it. However, the text goes far beyond this question, since it provides for the extension of the PCH to persons with psychological disorders, who are largely excluded from it, particularly with regard to human aid. If we do not object in principle to this extension, we are much more reserved about the method. First of all, I would like to remind you that since 2017, our majority and the Government have been working hand in hand with the departments to expand the PCH. This action has borne fruit: it has resulted in the creation of real rights for the autonomy of persons with disabilities. Since 1 January, parents with disabilities have been able to benefit from PCH parenting to help them on a daily basis. We have also incorporated meal preparation time into the compensation plans, and removed the age limit of 75 to claim this benefit. These reforms have been demanded for many years by associations and families, who can now measure their concrete effects. Secondly, the text we are considering proposes to include in the framework for the examination of PCH applications the concepts of assistance and support for overall autonomy, which fall within the regulatory area and therefore do not need to be defined by law. For chairing a CDMH, I believe that these unoperational criteria will complicate the assessment of files by officers, who are doing outstanding work. Finally, the draft law is not quantified and disregards any financial considerations, providing for State compensation for the additional costs incurred by the departments. Ask them what they think of this compensation for the RSA! As a departmental advisor, I can assure you that they are not reassured about the financing of these provisions. As leaders of the policy of solidarity, departments are the first to be concerned with the issue of the enlargement of the PCH; However, they have hardly been involved in the drafting of the text. A dangerous method, therefore, runs counter to the spirit of dialogue with local authorities which must prevail in this field. However, is the situation of people with a mental disability satisfactory? Of course not. The conclusions of Dr. Leguay's report are without appeal: the PCH framework, as established today, gives rise to a feeling of discrimination in them. For this reason, in July the Government launched a study-action aimed at experimenting in three departments with the extension of the criteria for awarding the PCH. Based on this study, and in consultation with departments and associations, the Government – the Secretary of State has just announced this – will rewrite the decree setting these criteria, so that the victims of a mental handicap no longer pass between the meshes of the net. Our group welcomes this important new step in order to increase the autonomy of those who have to cope with the alteration of their mental, cognitive and psychic functions. I would also like to pay tribute here to real progress in the CDMH, as well as to the commitment of the staff who day after day, with great humanity, bring answers to the families. Not everything is perfect, we know it as they know it. We must continue to support them, to help them, to modernise these institutions: we are all well aware of them. You will have understood this: the Action Together group will remain faithful to its position in favour of deconjugation of the AAH, but it will oppose the articles aimed at the enlargement of the PCH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u105	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u106	[[Applause on several benches of the IDU-I, LR and GDR groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Once again, we meet to discuss the deconjugalization of the AAH. I do not believe that I am wrong in saying that all the oppositions have succeeded in proposing to the Government this measure of justice – always in vain, while our citizens with disabilities, as well as their families, are waiting and hoping for it. I would like once again to thank Jeanine Dubie, who has invested a great deal in this matter and allowed me to report, 18 months ago, my bill on various measures of social justice. I also thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which has made this text live by placing it on the agenda of its parliamentary day, and the Group of the Republicans, which allows us to debate it again. The essence of the AAH is to promote the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities: we wished to stress this by amendment No 3, due to the chairman of our group, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, and aiming to transform its title into "Amount for the autonomy of adults with disabilities" or "3AH". This reminder is not superfluous: basing the autonomy of persons with disabilities on family solidarity is tantamount to totally denying the spirit of this allowance desired in his time by President Giscard d'Estaing. I would add that setting up a household, a family, is a powerful vehicle for emancipation; But this happiness is now upset by the resulting decline in the AAH. It is unacceptable to allow the spouse to bear the expenses of autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u107	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u108	[[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] Let us not make it compulsory for people with disabilities to choose between wallet and love. Our role is to create an ecosystem where they can be autonomous: in this respect, reducing the amount of the AAH for beneficiaries living in couples is an absolute countersense. You say that, during this five-year period, the allocation has been revalued: of course, this is an important budgetary effort, which we approve. However, it does not exempt the Government from putting an end to this unbearable injustice. Instead of doing so, Madam Secretary of State, you are planning a lump sum allowance that does not satisfy anyone and that no one was asking for! Only 40% of people with disabilities in couples receive the full AHA; the reduction proposed in the first part of the finance bill would increase that figure to 60 per cent. What do you do with the remaining 40%? Do you consider them negligible in your accounting management of this allocation? Beyond the amount of the AAH, we must address the issue of its administrative treatment. When a request is made to the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities (CDAPH), the latter's silence after four months is a refusal. The IDU and independent group had tabled an amendment providing that this silence would now be accepted: we regret that it was declared inadmissible. We need to humanize these relations with the administration. We don't handle an AAH application like any file. Let us show these people in distress the respect they owe! Let's treat them, I repeat, with a little humanity! If the administrative services do not do their job properly, if they are unable, after four months, to respond to such a request, they should automatically do so. As far as the PCH is concerned, we share the rapporteur's wish for increased expenditure on autonomy. However, the proposed enlargement is very important: this new expenditure would weigh on the finances of the departments, which we must take into account. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR, LT and GDR groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the IDU and independent group will strongly support this text, in order to meet the legitimate expectations of people with disabilities, their families, associations and caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u109	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u110	In June 1975, in this same assembly and in this same forum, Simone Veil was wearing a bill of guidance that marked the beginning of our public policies with regard to persons with disabilities. In 2005, under Jacques Chirac's mandate, this policy was reinforced by the law on equal opportunities and access to citizenship for these people. Thus there are debates which, on matters of general and human interest, make us transcend our usual divisions. This bill, which extends the previous two, could have been consistent. But the Government and the current majority do not see this.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u111	That's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u112	This text, which has received the assistance and support of many groups, is however not a thunderstorm in a serene sky: an online petition has gathered more than 100,000 signatures and two bills have already been submitted, one since 2018 by my comrade Buffet on the deconjugalisation of the AAH, the other in 2020 by the group Libertés et territoires. Today, it is our colleagues in the Republicans Group who are alerting us to the condition of people with disabilities, and we thank them for that. Nearly 280,000 of our citizens benefit from the disability compensation benefit, and nearly 1.2 million from the allowance for adults with disabilities. These women and men demand only one thing: that the nation ensure their financial and personal autonomy, that is, the conditions for a dignified life. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Of course, I did not disapprove of the efforts made by your Government, Madam Secretary of State, in particular the increase of the AAH from 800 to 904. But this effort in no way explains the pusillanimity that the majority is currently demonstrating by rejecting the twofold proposal made by this text: to broaden the criteria for attribution of the PCH and to put an end to the flagrant injustice of conjugalization of the AAH. To reject everything, you cut yourself off behind argutes: the enlargement of the PCH would disregard the competence of the departments and would not be the subject of any significant figures, the deconjugation of the AAH would ignore the family solidarity, its cost would be exorbitant... [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LR and IDU-I]] All these arguments are specious. First of all, with regard to deconjugalisation, you say, Mrs Cluzel, that this allowance is a social minimum like any other. No, no: this is an individual and compensatory benefit, which falls within the scope of national solidarity, as stated in the explanatory memorandum of the 2005 Act, which states that this is indeed a national obligation of solidarity. You're looking at the 44,000 homes that would certainly be losing. But I could reply that they are the exception that confirms the rule and say, above all, that section 7 of the bill allows those who wish to remain in the current regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u113	It's impossible to apply!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, you omit to say that deconjugation would represent an average monthly gain of nearly 300 euros for about 196000 people. I would add above all that this benefit must form the basis for the financial autonomy of the person, so that none of our citizens has to choose between a marriage or a civil pact of solidarity and the recognition by society of a disability. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Finally, if we incriminate the imprecision of this proposal concerning the budgetary costing of the PCH, what about the majority's comments regarding the cost of the AAH, which goes from simple to double – from 300 to 700 million – according to the moods of the Government? In this regard, allow me to incise: even 700 million would not be extravagant in view of the countless tax niches that strike our national budget! As far as disability compensation is concerned, the first three articles of the draft law finally adapt our legislation to the evolution of the perception of disability: it is a question of recognizing not only a total physical or cognitive handicap, but partial alterations in mental, cognitive or psychological functions which make it difficult to maintain daily autonomy. We all know a loved one, elderly or not, for example, a victim of a stroke, who has seen his abilities diminished but wants to lead a somewhat normal life without losing his bearings. Let no one be cut off from civil, civic and social life, that is the meaning of these articles! Human consideration is also reflected in Article 3. When almost 95% of award decisions are made on a list, this article proposes that no applicant can be dismissed without having been previously heard by the decision-makers. No, the state is not condemned to be a cold monster: it is possible to ensure a better management by the community while allowing each individual to testify about his or her situation. The human first! [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups and on several benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the La France insoumée group will vote without ulterior thought and without calculation the present bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u115	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u116	In a parliamentary life, there are causes that we embrace more than others, fighting that we conduct with more strength and heart. They awaken in us a constant and powerful conviction, because they are just fights. For me, the cause of disability, and more broadly the autonomy of people, is of particular importance. I know that this fight is shared by others in all groups, whether they are from the opposition or the majority. The fight for the individualization of the AAH's calculation has found in Parliament many defenders. By introducing a bill to this effect in 2020, I have indeed continued the work undertaken by Marie-George Buffet; Yannick Favennec-Becot was the rapporteur. Together, we have adopted this proposal and have accepted a long-standing request from persons with disabilities and associations. In the same trans-party logic, the work was continued in the Senate thanks to our colleague Philippe Mouille and his group Les Républicains. He was able to continue here last June, thanks to the communist group and in particular Stéphane Peu. This good momentum could only be broken by a procedural artifice. The Government lowered its position by using the blocked vote and completely denaturing the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u117	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u118	As I say and repeat, the lump-sum reduction proposed by the Government in the finance bill cannot satisfy us. It does not respond to the issues of autonomy and dignity of individuals. We continue to believe that this is a cold and technical solution to a political and philosophical issue. Our fight continues, does not dislike some, because it is profoundly fair. I welcome the initiative of our colleague rapporteur, Mr Aurélien Pradié, who takes it up again, and I will not dwell on the absurd and sometimes dangerous consequences of the current method of calculating the AAH. It obliges too many people to renounce marriage or cohabitation for fear of losing an allowance to which they are entitled and which they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u120	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u121	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, SOC, IUD-I, FI and GDR groups]] [[Approvals on several benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] This method of calculation is absurd and contradictory: if a beneficiary lives with his or her parents, their income is not taken into account, whereas if he or she decides to live as a couple, his or her spouse's income will be taken into account. It is here, Madam Secretary of State, that you are mistaken! According to articles 212 et seq. of the Civil Code, family solidarity concerns ascendants and descendants. But today it is deconjugalization that we are talking about, not family solidarity – because the parents' resources would then be taken into account, which is not the case! [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] The AAH is a special family benefit provided for in the Social Security Code and not in the Social Action Code and the Family Code. As proof of this, article L. 244-1 of the latter, which states that "the rules relating to the allowance for adults with disabilities are laid down by the provisions of articles L. 821-1 [and following] of the Social Security Code reproduced below [...]. It's written in the code! [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] [[Approvals on a few benches of the LR group]] I am convinced that these contradictions arise from a confusion, from a mistake: that of believing that the AAH is a social minimum, whereas it is a special purpose provision. Let us stop comparing it to the AHR, which is a one-time support for a person who is unemployed but able to work. The AAH is a long-term aid paid to persons who are in total or partial incapacity to work, recognized medically, and whose situation will often not change or decline. There is no reason why their spouse's income should be taken into account! Let us not be mistaken: this is not just a financial issue, but a political choice, which refers directly to the place we give to people with disabilities in society. Beyond this, the text we are looking at is intended to improve access to disability compensation benefits. The topic is important because PCH is a condition of home retention and autonomy for persons with disabilities. Progress has already been made – the removal of the age limit of 75, support for parenting or the possibility of a life benefit – but there are still significant room for improvement. The changes proposed in the text are in the right direction; In fact, they take up Denis Leguay's recommendations. The associations have been waiting for years for the publication of a decree revising the framework for access to the PCH. The text sets the framework for this. I also stress the need to raise the age limit from 60 to 65. The 2005 Act already indicated that age barriers would have to be removed within five years, which was not the case. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC, UDI-I, FI and GDR groups]] Colleagues, we still have a long way to go to ensure the autonomy and inclusion of people with disabilities. Today, we have the opportunity to take one more step: let us not miss this opportunity again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u122	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u123	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Today we are considering a bill to provide more social justice and autonomy for persons with disabilities. On some matters, and beyond our political diversity, consensus should be possible. This text is an undeniably good example, and I would like, on behalf of the Communist Members, to thank Mr Pradie and the Republicans for having drafted it and put it on the agenda. Yes, this text is in the right direction. First of all, it proposes to extend the scope of human assistance provided for in the provision of compensation for disability to three new areas: supervision and assistance, support for overall autonomy and participation in social and civic life. The bill also aims to guarantee access to this benefit, which currently benefits only 315,000 people, to all those who suffer from impairment of their abilities, whether physical, psychic or cognitive – which includes the major subjects of autism and Alzheimer's disease. By opening up the right to the PCH, regardless of the form of disability, the bill redresses an injustice that is at the very heart of the injustice of disability. The text also gives the applicant a right of appeal and provides for the obligation to receive it in the event of a refusal to award the PCH. This is a useful measure, while the rate of acceptance of applications has steadily declined to below 45%; It stood at 77% in 2008. We regret, however, that the bill did not address another injustice, denounced by all associations, by not raising the age of attribution beyond 60 years. What a paradox that, in terms of disability, those over 60 years of age are considered "too old" to receive a compensatory benefit, whereas when it comes to pensions, you are never too old to continue working! The second part of the bill deals with the de-judgment of the allowance for adults with disabilities, i.e. the removal of the spouse's income from the calculation. This is not the first time that we have discussed this issue in the Chamber. That was recalled, because my colleague Marie-George Buffet had tabled a bill to that effect in 2018. After it was adopted by the Senate, we examined another text last June, of which I was the rapporteur with my colleague Jeanine Dubie. By using procedures and artifice, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State, you have deactivated this text; In doing so, you have remained impassive in the face of so many testimonies of couples and lives broken by the unbearable price of love that is conjugalization. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] In the absence of any consideration for parliamentary oppositions, have some for the associations, unanimous on the subject. They gathered again, all over France, on 16 September. They ask for something simple, very simple: no longer have to choose between a couple's life and financial independence. They ask that the handicap no longer be added to the weight of a guardianship, even benevolent, like the one exercised a few decades ago by a husband on his wife. They ask that the word "adults" be finally understood in "adults with disabilities allowance". In essence, it is a demand for humanity and respect for the right to autonomy that they formulate and it is to which we must respond. [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] So, Madam Secretary of State, you will not close their mouths by repeating in loop that this request is incantatory, you will not silence them falsely pretending that this reform will make losers. On this subject, your word is less important to us than that, unanimously, of those interested in your arguments as a humiliation. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, sixteen years after the law of 11 February 2005, disability policy deserves better than false debates like last June, when you brandish everything and anything to reject the individualisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities – remember, the argument of probable problems related to CAF computer software in calculating the allowance had even been put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u124	Ah! Computer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u125	By voting on this bill, by no longer considering the allowance for adults with disabilities as a social minimum but as an autonomy allowance, we will be faithful to the spirit of René Lenoir, the author of the bill that introduced the AAH in 1974 and we will respond to a pressing demand from our fellow citizens, a request for humanity, a demand for dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC, UDI-I, LT and FI groups]] I shall conclude, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, by telling you that if, by means of procedural artifice or articles of deletion, you ensure that this proposal for a law knows the same fate as that which we defended in June in this House, we will not let you go. On October 12, in the Senate, Senator Philippe Mouille will present the same text and it will probably be adopted. You should also know that our group will take it back into its parliamentary niche so that we can debate it again here.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u126	Will the Government eventually understand?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u127	We won't let you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u128	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u129	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we come together to discuss the autonomy of people with disabilities, I have no doubt that we all share in this House the same ambition: to change the attitude towards them and to improve their living conditions. Don't dislike our oppositions, we have a record to defend and we don't have to blush in it. [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] According to some, we are sticking to a "witty and stupid" opposition. Is it worth recalling that it has never been so much done for people with disabilities and to make our society a more inclusive society? The budget allocated to disability since 2017 has reached almost 52 billion: never seen! [[Same movements]] [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government and its majority have acted. We have acted by revaluing the amount of the AAH, which today amounts to 904 euros. We acted by developing inclusive school: in the 2021 school year, 20% more students with disabilities than in 2017 were in school. We have acted by advancing integration into employment, by increasing access to rights. I could continue for a long time as long as this list is provided. The facts are stubborn, so are the numbers. The rapporteur, in your opinion, the measures we have implemented would be "sectarian and partisan". I leave it to you to choose your words. In the meantime, these reforms meet real needs. We have moved from formal rights to real rights. Others before us are far from having done the same. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With regard to the allowance for adults with disabilities, we have listened to the expectations expressed by associations and persons with disabilities on the ground and here again we have acted to meet them. Thus, in the draft finance law for 2022, we will allow 120,000 beneficiaries in couples to have an average gain of 110 euros per month, with increases of up to 186 euros. There will be no losers: this measure, which will come into force on January 1, 2022, is undoubtedly more equitable and redistributive than deconjugalization, which would favour high incomes. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] During this legislature, with this majority, the total expenditure on the AAH will have increased by more than 25%. Deconjugating the AAH would eventually deconjugate all social benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u130	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u131	This would be tantamount to questioning our system of social protection based on national and family solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] I have no memory of having heard on your benches the desire to question family solidarity. Why want to deconjugate only the AAH when our common ambition is to consider the person with a disability above all as a person in his or her own right, as a citizen, as a citizen? Isn't it more stigmatizing people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u132	Isn't that a special situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u133	It sucks, it sucks, it sucks! Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u134	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u135	Should we really allocate the same social benefits, regardless of the total resources of the household? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have the humility to say that much remains to be done: we have not reached the end of the road, we must continue the work we have begun. The disability compensation benefit – which is individualised – must evolve and evolve. The National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities will define a framework adapted to the over-sightedness. An action study has just been launched by the Secretary of State in three departments...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u136	With a green number?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u137	... to improve access to PCH for people with mental, mental, cognitive or neurodevelopmental disabilities. Its review, given at the beginning of the year 2022, will make it possible to develop the benchmark. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You claim long-term confidence in the field. Well, the commitments that have been made have been made in consultation with all the stakeholders, first and foremost the departments that are, I would remind you, leaders of solidarity policies. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr rapporteur, your proposal on the PCH, although commendable, is not in the legislative field. We don't need the law to evolve a repository.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u138	You do not need Parliament at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, we need confrontation with the ground. However, you have not engaged in consultations with the departments, you have not verified the feasibility of your measures, you have not identified the prerequisites and anticipated the counterproductive effects of your measures, such as the likely prolongation of the investigation procedures while we need to reduce them in order to speed up access to rights. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I grant you, we still have a lot to do in favour of the autonomy of people with disabilities to enable them to act without necessarily always relying on others, to go to school, to train, to work, to move, to entertain themselves and to enjoy access everywhere. So, in truth, the time is not for demagogy, opportunism and incantations. What is shameful, you see, is to use the subject of disability for political purposes! It is to see the oppositions gathered today for a com' on the backs of the people concerned! It's a dirty method! And I ask the question: who is the political monster?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u140	It's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u141	The subject of disability is also at the heart of my commitment, but we are defending another vision, a global, responsible and pragmatic vision,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u142	But that doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u143	...that we don't find in your bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group. – Hulls on the benches of the LR group]] The La République group on the move, in coherence, will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u144	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u145	The autonomy of persons with disabilities is a central issue for a more social and inclusive society. That is why I would like to express my support for this bill today. The current system reflects a real injustice, which has long been denounced by disability associations and all citizens mobilized on this subject. Indeed, it makes our fellow citizens in a situation of disability dependent on their spouse. That is why this major societal issue must go beyond the usual political divisions. This is a message that we must address to the most fragile; their right to live in a dignified and independent manner. I regret the lack of support from the majority on deconjugalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u146	The government's opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u147	Beyond a question of budget or financial support, it is a question of putting an end to a structural injustice suffered by persons with disabilities. This text contains measures that will help improve the daily lives of many of our citizens. Today we are talking about 270,000 people who could benefit from this amendment to the law. This allowance, let us recall, is not a social minimum like any other, but a replacement income for people who cannot work because of their disability. So how do you understand that the amount paid decreases when the beneficiary is no longer single? Deconjugation is all the more necessary given the fact that women who are victims of domestic violence are overrepresented among persons with disabilities. In France, 80 per cent of women with disabilities are reported to be victims of violence, mainly within their homes. Whether physical, verbal, psychological, sexual, drug, food or economic, violence is intensified when it involves women with disabilities. For example, in 2014, 19 per cent of valid women were physically or sexually abused, compared with 34 per cent of disabled women. While society is becoming increasingly aware of the scale of domestic violence and the psychological ressources they implement, caring for women with disabilities who are victims of violence remains a dead end of our public policies. It would seem that in 2021 the social law has not yet taken full measure of what domestic violence is and what it covers: the moral and economic dependencies of the victims, the fear of reprisals, too, which prevent them from emancipating themselves. While I welcome the progress made in this text, I must also point out a major problem which persists around this aid and which is not really dealt with here: the need to ensure its full implementation. As a Member of Parliament for French and French women from Latin America and the Caribbean, I know the difficulties that our citizens living outside France face in collecting this allowance. Many testimonies attest to this. The benefit of the AAH depends on recognition by the departmental houses of persons with disabilities, who find themselves obliged to create for the French abroad a fictitious address in France since the possibility of declaring an address abroad is not foreseen. This extends the processing time of cases, which can be up to nine months. Similarly, the application forms for a disability card or certificate require a social security number, while many of our compatriots established outside France do not have one because they were not born in France and never resided there. Far from the metropolis, the French from abroad sometimes suffer an additional isolation to which we absolutely must pay attention. The context of the pandemic has reminded us of the urgent need to strengthen the dematerialization of administrative procedures such as requests for recognition of disability. The administrative procedures are still too long and complicated for our fellow citizens: we must remedy them. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR and SOC groups]] That is why I call the Government's attention today to this major issue. Beyond the necessary measures to adapt this aid to the transformations of the twenty-first century, it is important to go further in the monitoring of our laws for a fairer and more inclusive deployment of these aids and their application.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u148	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u149	Thank you, colleagues, for your contributions. As you will have understood, the "dirty method" chosen by the majority to delete each of the articles by way of an amendment will leave little room for debate. I will therefore take a moment to return to some of the points that have been raised. Madam Secretary of State, Ms. Cloarec - Le Nabour, I understand that this bill is causing you deep irritation. As you can imagine, it will last, because as our colleague Stéphane Peu has said, we will not let you down on such essential issues as access to rights and justice for our citizens with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u150	Why didn't you do it when you were in power?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u151	Why didn't the Sarko Boys do anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u152	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Ms Nadia Essayan exclaimed]] You will have to get used to it, because it will last months, as long as it takes us to complete our request.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u153	Mr. rapporteur, I have to interrupt you. Madam Member, are you questioning the presidency? If that is not the case, I ask you not to make such a statement! As for you, honourable Member, I must remind you that everyone, in turn, when he or she has the floor, can express what he or she wants to say, sometimes even in a noisy and invigorating way. [[Ms. Géraldine Bannier applauds]] I take you back to each other and invite everyone to remain calm, especially on the subject we are discussing, and to listen to the various speakers. I told you, if the calm doesn't come back, I'll suspend the session as long as it takes. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u154	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LR and LT groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups]] On such an essential subject, I said, we will not lower our guard: from end to end, we will not let go. Let me begin with two points of form. First of all, the almost ad hominem accusation that you saw fit to make earlier, Ms. Cloarec - The Nabour, in calling us "political monsters," is unacceptable. Everyone has their own history and knows why one day they wanted to engage in politics. I will not let you, pointing at us as you do, suspect us of political cynicism. Suffer that on such important matters, we wanted to advance the cause. Your stubbornness, your sectarianism, your way of systematically denouncing those who do not agree with you do not honor you in a debate like this! [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I just came back from a word about the method. Since the beginning of the review of the bill, we have conducted more than twenty-five hours of hearings. How many members of the majority attended, if only thirty seconds? You are probably the only one, Madame Cloarec - Le Nabour: I have not seen one of those who today show so many pretensions on these subjects. I cannot let you say that this text was not prepared when when we were working on it, you were absent. We consulted the various partners: we met the representatives of the Assembly of the Departments of France, we visited Seine-et-Marne – you were invited to accompany us – to talk with the actors of the CDMH, to ensure that they were able to implement the solutions we advocate. Our bill, as you know, is in no way disconnected from the realities of the field, which we are many to know here for having sat for years – I did it for seven years – in a departmental commission of CDMH. Your inability to act, to move from words to deeds, petrifies you. With this bill, we want to end the incantatory words, the hollow sentences...,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u155	That's exactly what you're doing with this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u156	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... the "action cards", the bidules and the things, the inclusive society, everything you talk about over time and that does not change the lives of our fellow citizens. This text allows us to move from words to deeds, and we assume it as such. That is the political courage: it is not to count the figures in tables, to draw up "action sheets", to conduct studies or to multiply reports! Political courage is, after fifteen years of study and evaluation, to turn words into deeds! And that is what we have the ambition to do! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Paul Molac also applauds]] On the form, one and the other mentioned the fact that we would not need the law: I'm sorry to tell you that if only one Member of Parliament imagines this, it is that he has strayed into this assembly! We are in the Chamber to vote the law. If in 2005, our predecessors – Jacques Chirac and his majority and, beyond that, opposition – had not passed a disability law, we would not be here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u157	Thank you for reminding him!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u158	[[Approvals on several benches of the LR group]] Remember the debates of the time – some of our colleagues were already sitting on these benches. For hours, the question was whether or not disability should be defined in the law. How many grey costumes, "techns" of all kinds explained that it should not be done! The politicians of the time held good, against the views of the latter, and they did. And whether you want it or not, it is this political definition of disability in the law that has made it possible to transform society in depth.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u159	Thank you Chirac!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u160	But you don't have that courage. We believe that access to rights must go through the law, as was the case with the disability laws defended by Simone Veil in 1975, and then under Jacques Chirac's mandate in 2005. That must be the case again, thanks to our bill. What, then, was the time when access to rights would not be considered a law? On the contrary, it must go through it scrupulously, even if it is then necessary to fix the details by decree. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and IDU-I groups. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] I would add that this is the best guarantee and answer we can give to the fairness of rights. Some legitimately pointed out in the committee that situations were assessed differently in different departments. Who can accept that in a country like ours, fundamental rights are not treated in an equivalent way depending on where one resides and the administrative practices of the departmental house of disabled people on which one depends? If we want them to be uniform and equal throughout the national territory, there is only one way: not that of the decree, but that of the law of the Republic that we are voting in this assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, UDI-I, FI and GDR groups]] A word about the allowance for disabled adults. Clearly, this is a fundamental difference. I don't understand how you can stay from such a technical coldness to such an essential subject. How can you answer a question of identity with a lump-sum discount in the finance bill and assume that it will suffice to settle a question of dignity? Do you measure that the latter is not bought by means of a flat-rate allowance? [[Approvals on several benches of the LR and GDR groups]] Are you so unaware of the value of dignity to imagine that technical measures, almost of a fiscal nature, will suffice to resolve the issue? How can you still insist on this? The twenty-four associations for the defence of persons with disabilities signed a unanimous appeal on 5 October to urge the Government to deconjugate the AAH. At the time of consideration of the previous bills, all the oppositions and some of the majority had already called for them. What pushes you to stay so stunned...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u161	Blindness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u162	... and to oppose the response of such a cold monster to an eminently political subject, in accordance with our republican values? Finally, the arguments I heard this morning that the means used to deconjugate the allowance for adults with disabilities would be at the expense of other disability policies, are at best stupid, at worst immeasurable bad faith. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, LT and FI groups. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Turquois, I would remind you that the AAH is financed from the nation's budget and that disability policies in national education, in particular, do not come under the same budget. To make our fellow citizens believe that granting new, necessary rights and defending the deconjugalisation of the AAH would penalise children in school with disabilities is absolutely unbearable! [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, LT, FI and GDR groups]] Similarly, the argument that deconjugation of the AAH would be an oil stain and disrupt the entire organization of the social minima testifies to absolute cynicism and incredible coldness. We have told you and repeated dozens of times, Madam Secretary of State – our colleague Jeanine Dubie has just reminded you – that the allowance for adults with disabilities and social minimums did not fall under the same code and that the remedies for either of them did not depend on the same courts. You mix each other while they are perfectly partitioned. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I would add that the 2005 law already set as objectives the raising of the age barrier as deconjugalization: it is now a matter of going to the end of this process that – I concede to you – we have not been able to complete. But it is not because we have not been able to do so in the past that we must not today, when everyone agrees, move from words to deeds. As far as disability compensation is concerned, I mean those who explain to us that it is not the law to define access to rights, but the decree. I repeat: access to rights is defined only and exclusively by the law of the Republic – the decrees to set out the details. I would remind you that the 2005 law – we will have the opportunity to come back to it – sets out universal access to compensation rights. However, contrary to the legislator's opinion, decrees, in other words regulatory practice, have gradually added conditions which, today, are contrary to that law. Do you not think it necessary to correct these regulations, which go the opposite of what deputies and senators wanted to include in the law of the Republic? It is up to the law to define it. [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That the secretary of state defends decrees is one thing, but that members of the nation support the systematic use of the decree to change the rights of the French prove that they have strayed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u163	That's right! It's grieving!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u164	As you have all said, including the majority, we agree with the statement. It is not necessary to add "action sheets", bidule studies, tricks and tricks: it has been fifteen years for each other to study this issue. The last report commissioned by the Government to Professor Leguay specifically advocates what we are defending in the bill. Our text is the translation of fifteen years of work by specialists, professionals and departments: we have not changed a word in its drafting in relation to the recommendations they have made. Don't say you have to think again! If we think about it, we don't act anymore. It is now necessary to include these new needs, this new right in the law and to let the decrees then stop the details and contours. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups]] I mean, I want to go back to the method. I do not believe in three weeks that we have been working on this text to have refused to reach out to anyone. We've done everything we can to make it happen. Madam Secretary of State, the fact that you simply refused to be heard in the National Assembly is for me a sign of contempt and a closed door on a subject that did not deserve it. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] We have worked with all the groups to enrich and improve this text. To those who accuse us of a political manoeuvre, I will reply that when we defended a disability bill in 2018, we were not at the end of the legislature. We have, however, done so because we have been waging this struggle, historically, since the first day we joined the National Assembly. So we have no lessons to learn about political opportunism. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, to those who believe that this text cannot succeed, I would just like to recall a parliamentary reality. Two years ago, in this House, we defended a bill to protect women and children who are victims of domestic violence. This bill, adopted in November, came into force in the following January. If you imagine that in four months we are not able to debate and enforce a law, take some recent examples and you will see that it is quite possible. Our only intention, which may be disturbing to you, is to advance the cause and get at the foot of the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u165	Nice confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u166	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] Yes, put you at the foot of the wall, to avoid palabrer ten more years and allow us, you like us, to regain a little confidence of the French: only acts count! [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, UDI-I, LT, FI and GDR groups]] We have reached out and made sure, from the outset, that this text dealing with such an essential cause could be a collation text. You have refused it, you will have to assume it as such!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u167	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u168	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I heard I'd have a calculator instead of the heart. I will speak to you sincerely, reminding you that I am the mother of a disabled girl: I know what this means and every day I get up to improve the lives of people with disabilities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This 25-year-old girl, whose disability rate is 80%, works; All she wants, the day she meets love and, perhaps, gets married, is to be the pillar of her couple. Maybe she'll meet someone who won't be able to work. If she were a couple, she would be one of those 44,000 people who would lose to your bill and that the current taxing protects. Too often it is forgotten that in 30 per cent of these couples, the disabled person is the mainstay of the family, and that thanks to the current arrangements, she can maintain her HFA more sustainably. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I was shocked, Mr. Viry, to hear you say that people with disabilities were "immediately far from work." What a miserabilist vision! On the contrary, people with disabilities ask us to be accompanied towards employment, which we have been doing since 2017 thanks to the accompanying employment scheme. Of course, we have released millions for them, but we have also accompanied them in their dream of autonomy. This is what they want most today: not to be assisted, but to improve their autonomy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Because we have heard the requests of people with disabilities, we have since 2017, with the majority, wanted to exercise pragmatism and simplify their access to rights. You mentioned the difficulties of the departmental houses for disabled people. The law exists, it's there. We still need to improve practices, which we are working with the Assembly of the French Departments, in a spirit of co-construction. Whether it is with Dominique Bussereau, his former president, or his successor François Sauvadet, we have always shared the same objective: to improve the rights of persons with disabilities while respecting territorial fairness. That is why we have published a barometer of departmental houses for disabled people: we want to promote emulation between departments. This is how I work: in co-construction with those who manage the rights on the ground, i.e. the departments and departmental houses of people with disabilities. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Let me ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the Republican Group: why didn't you act before? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Why did your party object in 2018 to the bill on the deconjugation of the allowance for adults with disabilities from the Communist group of the Senate? Why the sudden change of foot? [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] As President Damien Abad said, it is only to give your political project a social aspect. Well, no: you can't instrumentalize disability! People with disabilities deserve much better than that! [[Same movements]] We have proven that since 2017, we have listened to and respected them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u169	Listen to what the associations say!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u170	I worked day after day with the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities to improve their rights. There is no other way to work: you have to build with people, for people. As for disability compensation, we also do not need the law to improve the functioning of this system. The existing law already provides for the right of persons to receive better compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u171	You know better than they do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u172	Mr. Little, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u173	In order to better assess and qualify the criteria for the payment of this benefit, we have initiated a field discussion with the CDMH and the associations. The four major associations involved in this process have done remarkable work over the past year to identify the criteria that we apply today in three laboratories...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u174	Action studies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u175	No, they're not action studies, they're operational field laboratories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u176	It's much better, for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u177	Yes, it's much better, because these laboratories demonstrate the effectiveness of the criteria, which then allows us to work on repositories. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As I know, I have committed myself to having the decree on the improvement of the disability compensation benefit rewritten with the associations in February to ensure that real rights, not incantatory rights, are granted to persons with disabilities. The way we look at people with disabilities is full of our attachment to citizenship: it is not a vain word! Inclusive society is not an incantatory notion. We are building it and we need associations, state services in the territories and local authorities to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u178	And parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u179	The above-ground work you are presenting to us today is not productive for people with disabilities. To really help them, we need a field job like the one we do. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] I want to welcome the commitment of the deputies of the presidential majority. It is thanks to you that we have introduced the life rights of people with disabilities! You took your pilgrim's stick and went to the CDMH to observe their functioning. That's how we can really change people's lives! It is only after studying how this happens on the ground that the law can be written, the rights to life can be established and their effectiveness measured in real life. We must constantly cross the last kilometre, which allows us to change the situation of people with disabilities in practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u180	You don't see the same associations as us, apparently!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u181	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] So yes, we assume our redistributive policy through the allowance for adults with disabilities and the provisions that we will defend under the 2022 Finance Bill. Let us hope that it will be adopted, as it will make it possible to change the lives of people with disabilities immediately from 1 January 2022. Through concrete and action-oriented measures, thought through with communities, we will effectively respond to the needs of these people. We are far from the incantations! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For a long time, disability policy has been a matter of specialists. We're doing it for everyone. The fact that the State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities is attached to the Prime Minister has allowed us to change the situation in all parts of the common law: school, sport, culture, employment, access to rights. That's how we work! We do not create specific new laws, but we apply existing laws passed by your assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u182	Stop the incantations!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u183	[[Same movements]] We must fully implement the law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities, which is a beautiful law. Let us work on the ground and be proud of what we are doing to improve the rights of people with disabilities on a daily basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u184	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u185	On Amendments Nos 12 and 7 and on Article 1, the Republicans have asked for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u186	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups]] Madam Secretary of State, you cannot, given your function, say that the allowance for adults with disabilities is a social minimum like the others. As you know, the adult disability benefit is a replacement income, which is intended to compensate for loss of work or inability to work. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If you do not defend this, who will defend it in the Council of Ministers and in your parliamentary majority? No one! Others may have the right to utter such ineptitude, but not you who are Secretary of State for People with Disabilities! [[Same movements]] I would also like to point out that the law is the expression of the general will. Now, at The Republicans, we don't have the shameful law! We are proud of the law of 2005, initiated by the President of the Republic Jacques Chirac because he was committed to defending the autonomy of people with disabilities! You prefer regulations, decrees and small administrative acts, but this is not our conception of political commitment and disability policy in France. Yes, we want a law! Not just for the deconjugalization of the AAH, but also for improving access to the disability compensation benefit – of which I would like to say a word, because it is a fundamental subject. As you know, the disability compensation benefit benefits 284,000 people. It is not just a service, as it also provides day-to-day assistance to persons with disabilities when, for example, you need to buy a wheelchair, equip a house with a ramp, adapt a car, or acquire a guide dog from the blind. This service must evolve – which you admit yourself, since you have initiated experiments in this direction – in order to take into account dys, behavioural disorders and autistic disorders. To this end, it is necessary to include in the law that the scope of the disability compensation benefit is extended to assistance to social and civic life. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Approvals on a few benches of the LR group]] That is concrete, Madam Secretary of State! I know that on the substance, you agree, as do our colleagues in the majority. Courage and political will are what we need! Stop getting rid of the budget issue while you're using France's checkbook for everyone, except for people with disabilities! Please also stop handing over this measure to the Greek calends on the grounds that it would not be urgent. We tell you this clearly: the aim of the Republican Group is not to increase the dependency of disabled people, but to give them more autonomy, freedom and hope in the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, UDI-I, LT and GDR groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot vote against this Article 1e r, which aims to extend the scope of the disability compensation benefit or to abolish it. Have courage and political will!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u187	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u188	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I want to share with you what is happening in the territories, Madam Secretary of State. Let's talk about mutualization! Please do something for the Oise CDMH, which works so badly that children with disabilities continue to flow into my permanence. I don't know what's going on in other departments, but our CDMH doesn't work at all and many families are in distress! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I support, like others, the deconjugalization of the AAH. It is a matter of common sense and freedom – the freedom to love, the freedom to marry, Madam Secretary of State! This majority so quick to claim the freedom to love for all deprives only disabled people of it. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] As for me, I am for marriage for all, including for people with disabilities! Only here: with you, they lose their rights when they get married. There is therefore no longer equality with this majority when it comes to persons with disabilities. You sit down on their rights! Let's talk about money now. We are told that an individual allowance would undermine collective solidarity, but we would need a whole day to discuss the AESH scheme, which cannot be combined with the AAH and which does not work either! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would add that you have no difficulty finding money ten months before the elections: 6 million for menstrual precariousness, 21 million for cycling at school, not to mention the universal income of Benoît Hamon, socialist candidate in the previous presidential election, which the majority is preparing to pass, by amendment, in the finance bill for 2022! [[Same movements]] Sorry, you no longer call it "universal income", but "contract of engagement"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u189	Please close, Mrs. Thill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u190	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] People who are able to work will therefore earn 500 euros, but nothing for people with disabilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u191	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u192	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] We're witnessing a bad remake. The proposal for a law on the deconjugation of the allowance for adults with disabilities continues to return to this Chamber and, as always, the Government and the majority are alone in the face of other political groups in the Assembly, in the face of associations and federations, in the face of demonstrations, petitions and motions. You insist on rejecting this bill with ever more arrogant nonsense – and I am polite...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u193	No, but what's wrong?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u194	Madam President, I cannot speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u195	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ruffin, you speak words that provoke reactions: you cannot be surprised. To avoid overflows, I invite everyone to keep a measured language.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u196	The deputies of the majority treat right-wing deputies as "monsters"; I'm just talking about "wrong"! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The president of La République en marche, Christophe Castaner, said in front of the members of his group: "Les cons, c'est nous. Why are you assholes? Because...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u197	Please, dear colleague! Please adapt your language to the place where you speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u198	We're taking a second shot! Action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u199	[[Same movements]] I take the words of Mr Castaner, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u200	Mr Balanant, I invite you to follow the lessons of discretion that you were quick to give recently. Only Mr Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u201	We're doing it again! Action!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u202	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] When Mr. Castaner questions you with these words, "The assholes are us," what does he expect of you?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Shut up! That's enough! No lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u204	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm just quoting you, Mr. Castaner! By these words, what does Mr Castaner ask of the majority? He invites them to show discipline, to tighten ranks and to vote in bloc like sheep.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u205	The two minutes are over!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u206	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] I wonder about the definition of the word "wrong."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u207	Your time has expired, Mr. Ruffin. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u208	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u209	And there's no entry in the minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u210	Mr. Member, are you questioning the presidency?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u211	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All right, then take your word off, please. Registration in the minutes is the responsibility of the Presidency, not yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u213	All right, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u214	Good. Mrs. Ménard, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u215	Last June, you refused to vote for the end of taking into account the spouse's income in the calculation of the AAH. However, it is a request unanimously defended by the persons concerned, by the associations representing them and by the members of the opposition – of all the oppositions – who, once they are not used to it, block. We believed in it until the end, since the Secretary of State for Children and Families, Adrien Taquet, had himself expressed his personal support for deconjugalization. You have, however, bowed to your positions, untiringly justifying that national solidarity did not have to replace solidarity between spouses, enshrined in the civil code. In your view, Madam Secretary of State, such a measure could upset our model of solidarity and lead all social minima, including the RSA, to an individualization that the public accounts cannot resist. It is to forget that the allowance for adults with disabilities is not a social minimum like the others, but well – many of us have recalled – a replacement income for those who cannot work or more. Unlike the RSA, it is not temporary. Disability is individual; The allowance, too, must be individual. I therefore ask you not to vote for the deletion amendment you tabled. In conclusion, I will simply quote the President of the Republic by recalling his promises made on 11 February 2020 at the National Conference on Disability: "The goal is to enable everyone to live a dignified life, a free life. [...] So it is to continue to go on the path of the dignified allowance for all persons with disabilities. So, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is time to honour the promises of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u216	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u217	First of all, I'm a little surprised because many of our colleagues are talking about the AAH while Article 1 deals with the PCH. Then, Mr rapporteur, you said to us, rehearsing the words of Mr Little: "We will not let you go. But don't let go of the prey for the shade and correctly define the stakes in question! In the case of PCH, when it comes to "cognitive impairment", objective criteria must be defined; Otherwise, there is a risk of creating differences between PCHs, with all the injustices that could result. I would therefore like you to define more objective criteria. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] There is also a need to assess the need for funding. I know that when it comes to disability, it is complicated to talk about funding, but a precise assessment is needed; Otherwise, some departments may find themselves in great difficulty. However, this is not mentioned in the bill. Your text must contain a precise legal definition! As I pointed out in committee, the PCH is defined in Article L. 245-1 of the Code of Social Action and Families; The amendment you tabled on Article 1 refers to Article L. 245-3 of the same Code. In the absence of a sound legal definition, recourse is possible, and we know what consequences this could have. I therefore particularly dispute the interest of this Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u218	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u219	For many years, associations and collectives have been pushing to reform the calculation of the AAH and to strengthen financial autonomy within the couple. Madam Secretary of State, the CNCDH reminded you, the principle of calculation of the AAH...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u220	PCH!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u221	... does not respect the rights to dignity, autonomy, the possibility of freely making one's own choices, and hinders the right to found a family or live as a couple. Madam Secretary of State, you may need a spark, a spark of humility and humanity, to understand that the AAH...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u222	PCH!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u223	...is not a social benefit, but a mark of respect which must lead to the autonomy of persons with disabilities; It must allow them to lead a financially acceptable life, but above all an uninhibited emotional life. You may need a spark to hear from staff and associations who hold hands with people with disabilities on a daily basis; You would need a spark to hear from families and parents who, like all parents, aspire to autonomy for their children and prepare them for it, because it is synonymous with security, emotional development and dignity. [[Ms. Gisèle Biémouret applauds]] You must reassure parents and children. There are questions that should no longer be heard: "What will become of me when my parents leave?" "; "What will become of my child when I am no longer there? » We do not dispute the fact that you are trying to do more, like everyone else on every bench in the Chamber, but we must now do better and give more dignity to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u225	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u226	In the course of the general discussion, Mr Turquois opposed – among other arguments – our colleague Pradié's bill to the fact that tabling a four-month bill at the end of the legislature made no sense. It is, however, the complete negation of what the debates in Parliament must be! [[MM. Hubert Wulfranc, Gérard Leseul and François Ruffin applaud]] What I would like to stress here is that the obstinacy of the parliamentary majority is absolutely incomprehensible. Madam Secretary of State, you can say anything you want – as I said in June and I repeat – but we are nothing, neither you nor us, to say in the place of those concerned what is good for them. Their views may or may not be taken into account, but what is good for them cannot be said in their place. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] However, the associations concerned unanimously propose – unanimously, Madam Secretary of State! – to deconjugate the AAH, not for accounting or low material reasons, but because only such a measure can allow the interested parties to have access to autonomy, which is the dignity of the human person within society. That's why they're fighting to deconjugate the AAH. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the SOC and FI groups]] I'm telling you: Senator Philippe Mouille will defend in the Senate the proposal that you rejected at least in June by means of the trickery of the blocked vote. The group of the Democratic and Republican Left will take it back before the end of the legislature, which will give you a new opportunity to finally hear the unanimous will of people with disabilities to deconjugate the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u227	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u228	The meeting was resumed. We come to the amendments. Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, in support of Amendment No 12, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u229	First of all, I would point out that Article 1 deals with the PCH and not with the AAH. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, I would like to re-establish the truth: Mr Aurélien Pradié, our rapporteur, talks to us about political monsters in an article in Figaro, which I invite you to read.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u230	You shouldn't read Le Figaro!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u231	Since 2017, the scope of compensation for disability and its target audiences has changed significantly. Since 1 January 2021, the PCH has included parental support – PCH parenting – for the actions of the daily lives of parents with disabilities. Consideration of certain needs has also been improved, for example with the integration of meal preparation times into compensation plans. The La République en marche group has also supported the removal of the 75-year-old age barrier, the improvement of the functioning of departmental disability compensation funds and the opening of a right to life-long PCH. Two new projects have been opened: the definition of the framework of a PCH adapted to over-sicity, under the aegis of the CNCPH, and the deployment of an action study on the improvement of compensation for persons with mental, cognitive or neurodevelopmental disabilities. All the actors from three departments – Ardennes, Gironde and Vosges – participating in the action study launched in the summer of 2020 are associated with the work: resource centres, porters of 360 communities, communal centres for social action (CCAS), departmental social services, managing bodies of social and medico-social institutions, self-help groups and support associations for caregivers. The incorporation of two new concepts by Article 1 of this bill – assistance and support for overall autonomy – is not likely to improve the consideration of the specific needs of individuals. Indeed, these notions are both broad and poorly defined: they could extend eligibility for human aid far beyond the only people with mental, cognitive or neurodevelopmental disabilities, thus capturing the resources to support other audiences. It would also be difficult to translate these concepts operationally. The legal standard chosen, legislative rather than regulatory, also raises questions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The group La République en marche will therefore vote for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u233	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Before I turn to the substance of this article and this amendment, I would like to make a comment. Madam Secretary of State, you said you were a mom. You're a mom, no one's ever contested it. For my part, it happens that I am, that I was a son. I have never claimed this status before the National Assembly. Let us not claim our personal situations before this assembly. Our respective mother and son situations give us no less but more homework.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u235	That's not what she said! It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u236	Let us go back to the PCH and the article that you intend to delete with your amendment, starting by reminding us of what this service is because it seems to me that our discussions have taken us away from what it covers. For the approximately 373,000 of our citizens who benefit from it, this benefit aims to compensate for a disability that causes a difficulty in living daily and integrating into society. The PCH has several components. It consists of material aids – which can be used, for example, to finance the purchase of a wheelchair or housing equipment – and also for human assistance. What we are talking about here is human aid, which allows daily support to overcome the difficulties and alterations caused by disability. The 2005 Act, which defines the PCH, states that this right to compensation is "universal". At the time of adoption of this text, after lengthy debates, the legislator did not envisage any restriction on the universal nature of the compensation. This universal character, which is fundamental, is enshrined in Law 2005. It was only after the adoption of the law that the scope of this universal right to compensation was restricted by a decree amending Schedule 2-5 of the Code of Social Action and Families. This decree, which has never been subject to parliamentary scrutiny, sets at least two restrictions. One refers to a criterion based on the absolute or non-absolute nature of the alteration or disability. This concept is completely absent from the 2005 Act, I repeat, which means that the regulatory power has come to contradict the law on this point. The other restriction concerns the eligibility criteria for PCH, which form an incredibly complex system. To be eligible for human assistance from the PCH, it is necessary first to be at the PCH in general, i.e. to meet some 19 criteria: not being able to move, eat, etc. To be eligible for human aid, you must pass a second filter and face four difficulties, two of which must be serious or absolute. What are the difficulties mentioned by the regulatory power in the decree and not at all in the law? They are difficult to eat, to wash, to eliminate. As a result, PCH becomes inaccessible to people with mental disabilities. Why can't people with autism or Parkinson's disease or premature Alzheimer's disease have access to human assistance from PCH? Because these people do not necessarily have difficulty feeding, washing, dressing or moving around their homes. They encounter other forms of difficulty, linked to the specific nature of the psychological handicap. When you are in an autism situation, for example, your ability to perform the acts of daily life is not altered in an absolute way. That is what, since 2006, i.e. one year after the adoption of the law, has prompted all actors – administrations, CDMH, governments – to reflect on the extension of the scope of the PCH. This applies to a few tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. At present, mental disability is de facto excluded from the possibilities of accompanying the PCH. As we recall the main principles, let us reiterate that everyone has recognized the need to review the perimeter of the PCH, which has been aging since 2005. This section of our bill was not written on a corner table. At the time of writing, we were guided by the recommendations of all the reports published since 2006. In our bill, we scrupulously echoed the words used by Dr. Denis Leguay in the report that was submitted to you a few weeks ago, Madam Secretary of State. We took word for word the remarks made by the Prime Minister in 2017 and by the President of the Republic a year ago. Your Prime Minister at the time, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and our President of the Republic – who is yours in particular –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u237	It's that of all the French, we're in democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u238	... declared in 2017 and 2021 that it was necessary to extend the scope of the PCH to cover these new forms of disability. The terms chosen for the drafting of this text have not been at random: they reflect exactly the content of all the reports published for almost ten years. I do not understand that you can answer by action sheet, action study, evaluation, CDMH 2021 or I don't know what, CDMH 360 degrees and others: we are entitled to all the concepts of the world! Since we all agree, we must now act, move from words to deeds. As far as the impact of the enlargement of the PCH is concerned, I want to answer you very precisely. If you have all read the report carefully, you have seen that at least 60000 of our citizens are involved. Evaluations are difficult, as there are no centralized data from the CDMHs, while the administration has been expected to work on the development of a data compilation software for the past 10 years. We estimated that nearly 600,000 of our citizens would benefit from the extension of the human aid component of the PCH. Mr Turquois, I am insisting on this and I am replying to you one more time, as I did in committee: we have placed this article in the right place in the code of social action and families since we are redefining the areas of intervention. You insist on not turning the code page. If you read the following page, you will see that this article is included in the expansion of areas to include assistance in "participation in social and civic life". This concept is absent from the Decree and from the above-mentioned Annex, and is not included anywhere at all. However, we have not chosen at random these words "assistance, support for global autonomy and participation in social and civic life": they correspond to the recommendations of a former Prime Minister, the current President of the Republic and all published reports. This measure is entirely a matter of law. You cannot open a new right through regulation, you have to go through the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u239	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Again, if in 2005, your predecessors had been scared and your modesty today, we would never have included the definition of disability in the law passed that year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u241	And what did you do between 2007 and 2012?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u242	It was precisely this definition that allowed for the opening of new rights. You say that this bill would mechanically open up the benefit of compensation for the handicap to the mental handicap. I repeat that Article 1, which everyone can read again, does not mention the concept of mental disability but only the areas of intervention so that those who are affected by Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease or who have autism can benefit from this benefit. I would like to go into a little more detail on the provisions of the article because we will not have the opportunity to come back to it after an amendment to delete it has been adopted. Let me repeat: we have a sufficient number of studies, it is time to move from speech to action. Madam Secretary of State, I do not understand your reasoning. You told us, half-worded, that you were going to revise the decree by February.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u243	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u244	I insist that two days ago, after contacting all the major associations that are campaigning for the extension of the scope of the compensation service, you announced to them that the new decree would be ready in January.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u245	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u246	[[Ms ChristineCloarec-Le Nabourprotestte]] If you win two months every forty-eight hours, I fear that this revision will not be ready until the end of the legislature. However, your statements show that you do intend to accede to our request to extend access rights to the PCH. That is, in any case, what you have just said after you have already told the associations. Therefore, I do not understand your budgetary modesty. If its intention is truly honest and sincere, the Government will open the rights of compensation in February. It is therefore entirely legitimate for us to include this extension in the law so that the decree will then specify its terms. The last sentence of the article repeats this sequence since it refers the responsibility to fix these details to the regulatory authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u247	Mr rapporteur, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u248	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You refer to the consultation of departments and the fact that they have been leaders in disability treatment. You are right, however, it is not the departments that set the framework for the law of the Republic. We all agree on this point. I don't see any reason, except for arroguties, not to go through the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u250	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, let me reply to the rapporteur. I assume high and strong to be a mother, as I assume high and strong to have twenty years as president of an association to help people with disabilities behind me. The lessons you are constantly giving on this subject are really tiring.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u251	I'm a son myself!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u252	I congratulate you too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u253	Once we said that, we didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] We have the right to say so. It is not necessary to go back on this or to give lessons on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u255	You keep teaching others!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u256	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If we ask for the deletion of Article 1, it is because, as you have said, we are already working with the departments as well as with four associations that I would like to mention: the National Union of Families and Friends of Sick and/or Mentally Impaired Persons (UNAFAM), Autism France, Attention deficit disorders with or without hyperactivity (TDAH) - For equal opportunities, and the National Union of Associations of Parents, Mentally Impaired Persons and Their Friends (UNAPEI). I have been working for more than two years, hand in hand, with them as well as with Dr.Leguay, who gave us a report that is at the origin of experiments currently carried out in three pilot departments and in collaboration with these departments – the Vosges, the Ardennes and the Gironde. That is my commitment! Everyone says that the decree is the right front door...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u257	Not everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u258	... to open the criteria for obtaining the benefit to a range of disorders that are difficult to assess. That is why we are putting these measures into practice in three departments. The decree to extend these criteria will be ready in February 2022: I made a commitment to the associations with which I have been engaged for a long time. We will work on it effectively. Again, let us not proceed with this amendment through legislation. The Prime Minister has announced that it is through the regulatory path that we will improve, all together,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u259	The regulatory path is not "all together"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u260	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... the rights of individuals by providing support for their autonomy. This is how we work effectively! That is why I am against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u261	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u262	[[Smile]] First of all, I want to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for I have been so often criticized here for talking about my personal life or my caregiving activity, explaining to me that in the Chamber we all had to speak as Members without ever mentioning our personal life. Thank you for being right, which is more than a few days away from the review of the Social Security Financing Bill (SSP). I will now be able to refer to my caregiving experience by taking advantage of your permission. UNAPEI, UNAFAM and Autism France – among other associations, I will not mention them all – are in favour of Article 1. As the rapporteur has said, I would like to point out that, in order to benefit from the financing of human aid, for example from home workers, there must be disorders that cause a loss of functional autonomy – such as an inability to walk or to see – which does not cover, or too little, mental disabilities. I invite Ms Cloarec - Le Nabour, who is awaiting a study, and Mr Turquois, who lacks elements, to read, as the Secretary of State did, the report of Denis Leguay, President of Santé mentale France. This proposal is part of its recommendations. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Dear Mr Turquois, if there is a missing line to this article or if there is an error in it, why not amend it rather than delete it? All associations, users and oppositions unanimously support this article 1. You systematically refuse, as a matter of principle, to support a text submitted by one of your oppositions; When it is a measure that all associations demand, this posture is painful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u263	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, if your position in the Government is to defend persons with disabilities, you do not have a monopoly on support for them, nor does the presidential majority have the exclusive right to take action in this area. Parliament's role is to promote public debate, which includes parliamentary initiatives. This bill is a very concrete example of this. I will not go back to the maturity of this text. This amendment shows from the outset that the majority absolutely does not want to make concrete progress on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u265	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u266	You tabled an amendment to delete the article when you had the opportunity to propose amendments if you felt that its wording was not perfect or sufficiently precise. Instead, you're content with a single message: "Move, there's nothing to see, you don't know anything about it, only the majority knows how to do it! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u267	Listen to what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u268	Dear colleague, your amendment is only motivated by your willingness to address you with satisfaction for your action, but it does not say anything on the substance. Our colleague Aurélien Pradié has only transcribed the reality of the situation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u269	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...propose what all professionals are waiting for the perimeter of the PCH to be extended, in order to support men and women with mental disorders. Why don't we act today? Because you don't want others to have you at the root of this social conquest? What's the real argument? Beyond the rapporteur's strong, clear, precise and rational explanations, we can only oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u271	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u272	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this deletion amendment, as I said in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u273	The finger on the seam of the pants!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u274	We are all here aware – and we have all said so – of the need to reform the PCH. [[A Member of Parliament questions the speaker]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Pradie, I share many of your arguments. I fully assume my position on the AAH, sir, and thank you for leaving me alone and allowing me to express myself. Mr Pradieu, you cannot blame some people for not wanting to be heard – if, however, this is the case – while you yourself have not consulted the departments, which, as leaders, are the first to be affected by this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u275	We auditioned them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u276	On such a subject, you cannot prepare a text without co-building it with the departments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, we are all aware of the need to change the PCH, but this reform must be the result of work with the departments. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u277	I put to the vote Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u278	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 195 Number of votes cast 190 Absolute majority 96 For adoption 115 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u279	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u280	On Amendments Nos 13 and 9, as well as on Article 2 as a whole, I have before me a request for a public vote by the Group of the European People's Party. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u281	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u282	Article 2 supplements the previous article. It clarifies its scope by providing that the PCH may be affected in the event of impairment, even if not absolute, of capacity. It also allows people with neurological or psychological disorders to be included in the device. I would point out that more than 280000 people benefit from the PCH, at a cost of around EUR 1.9 billion. However, there are real injustices and shortcomings. Access to this benefit is often perceived as complex and rigid. This article provides for the possibility of assigning the PCH for assistance needs to social and civic life. This will include accompanying young autists or people with Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease. This common sense bill aims to expand access to PCH and adapt it to new forms of disability. It raises many legitimate expectations among the people concerned. Above all, it is the result of a tour of France of associations and departments, meetings with affected people and numerous hearings. This text also provides an opportunity to reopen the debate on the deconjugalization of the AAH. No, this allowance is not a social minimum! It is also not the RSA for people with disabilities. Disability is not chosen, it is experienced and lived daily: every day is a battle for families and for those affected. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, you, as well as the majority, cannot empty this bill with its full meaning by deleting all its articles. We are sitting in this Chamber to improve and vote on the law. How can you, in the run-up to the presidential and legislative elections, tell us that we can no longer table bills when this is the very essence of our work?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u283	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, to support Amendment No. 13 to delete Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u284	I would simply like to point out that the associations are, like us, in favour of the development of the repositories. They also approved our method. We are not opposed to the extension of the PCH but to your way of doing it. Having attended the hearing of Dr. Leguay, I can assure you that he never said that it was necessary to go through the law to implement his recommendations; On the contrary, he stated that the regulatory route had to be chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u285	He's a doctor and not a member of Parliament or a minister! His job is to treat, not to make the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u286	He insisted on the necessary preconditions for extending the perimeter of the PCH and expressed his full agreement with our method. Believe me, we will be much faster by proceeding and passing your bill. I now come to the amendment. The disability compensation benefit is awarded when a person encounters an absolute difficulty in carrying out a major daily activity or a serious difficulty in carrying out at least two important daily activities. Section 2 of the Bill opens the PCH to persons suffering from impairment, even not absolute, of abilities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the legal value of the article, which also raises the question since the definition of these concepts falls within the regulatory field, the drafting could lead to wide access to disability benefits in all its aspects, since it would be sufficient to justify a single non-absolute impairment of the capacities to claim the benefit. This provision would thus call into question the entire existing framework and the work carried out so far, in conjunction with the persons concerned and their representatives, to define objective criteria for judging the loss of autonomy and the necessary compensation for disability. It could also have a massive financial impact on the expenditure provided by the departmental councils. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group is in favour of the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u288	Article 2 complements the measures to extend the scope of the disability compensation benefit proposed in Article 1, and these two articles therefore follow the same logic. Two criteria for access to the PCH, which were not provided for in the 2005 Act, are set out in the regulatory annex to the Code of Social Action and Families. I'm sorry to repeat this, but that should be an issue for us, regardless of our political convictions, because this annex restricts the scope of the compensation, contrary to what the law had. There must be two serious or absolute incapacity in certain areas listed in the decree, whereas the law established a universal right to compensation. I quote Article 11: "A person with a disability has the right to compensation for the consequences of his or her disability regardless of the origin and nature of his or her disability, age or way of life. It should be noted that the regulatory authority has gradually reduced the scope of the 2005 Act. That should be a profound challenge to us. The purpose of the article is therefore to remove the only regulatory provisions that relate to the concept of absolute incapacity – we maintain, contrary to the summary statement of your amendment, the two criteria for serious incapacity provided for in the annex – because there is no absolute incapacity to carry out the acts of daily life in certain forms of disability, particularly psychical ones, such as autism, Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's. Thus, a person in autism does not necessarily suffer from an absolute inability to wash, eat or dress, but may still need compensation for his or her disability for the acts of social life. It is necessary to return to the clarity of the 2005 law and its universality dimension. We are not opening the valves as I have heard in committee, we are maintaining a framework and we are very much in line with the proposals made by Dr Leguay and others. I recall that at his hearing, Denis Leguay made it clear that it was not within his competence to know whether to go through the law or the regulations, which is rather good because to each one his profession, to each his mission: the doctors formulate the necessary recommendations, the deputies vote the law and the secretaries of state dream, I suppose, to decree. The balance of the system consists in incorporating new rights into the law; It will then be up to the regulatory authority to specify the terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u290	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For the same reasons as before, I am of course in favour of this amendment since the article does not respond to the unanimous request of the associations, namely to go fast and strong. A decree was being prepared for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u292	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u293	It has been well understood that you are going to proceed with an article after article removal of this bill, for formally technical reasons and on a sham bottom, the same ones that we have been hearing in all the parliamentary niches for almost five years now: "We cannot go through the law because these provisions are in the regulatory field but, you will see, it will be much faster and more effective. Every time we make proposals on the auxiliaries of social life, we are referred to a law on the old age, promised but never presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u294	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u295	And for the burn-out, we were told that a bill was in preparation but it never happened! When we intervene in the spring on the problems of young people, we are told that the President of the Republic will make decisions, but nothing has happened. I say again: what is most important to me is the way in which you, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, make yourself the ventriloquists of associations and federations. When UNAPEI, UNAFAM, Autism France and others say they want the deconjugalization of the AAH, the extension of the PCH and other developments, you say that this is not really what they have expressed and that they want something else... You can't speak for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u296	You're doing it right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u297	Talking in their place is arrogance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u298	Completely amazing! That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u299	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...not only with regard to the Members present here but also, and this is much more serious, with regard to the federations and associations as well as to all those disability activists who are mobilizing everywhere in France and who are demanding certain measures. And you, you just tell them that's not really what they need, as if they weren't big enough to know what they want for themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u300	You are the worst ventriloquist in this House, Mr Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u301	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u302	I am sorry that your only answer to an important question is a deletion amendment: can people with neurological or psychological disorders benefit from PCH? You categorically refuse that the law grants them this right. Such a position can only have an end to not receiving it from me. In the summary statement of your amendment, you repeat that it is not for the legislator to make this progress that would fall within the competence of the regulatory authority:...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u303	It's faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u304	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ...how can you complacent yourself to this point in the abandonment of function? It's up to the law to set the general framework! It is up to the law to allow social progress! You cannot escape for the sole reason that a minister would be able to return by decree on what he would have signed a few weeks before! This is not how social causes are advanced, not how much progress is made in this country! Your amendment will prevent helping men and women who experience difficulties in their daily lives. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Madam Secretary of State, rather than issuing a negative opinion, be positive and rewrite the article if the wording proposed by Aurélien Pradien does not suit you, even if it sets out new criteria, but do not avoid the public debate because that is not the way forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u305	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u306	We are also opposed to this amendment to delete the article that we do not understand. It is up to the deputies to fight to accompany the families and associations who express themselves on the subject. The arguments put forward by Mr Pradie are sufficiently clear. Indeed, there are many forms of disability, and for the same type of disability there are huge differences depending on the individual, family and social conditions. We see the need to establish new criteria and to extend the scope of the PCH to meet the challenges faced by people on a daily basis. It is well known that they are gigantic and not always understood, if not ignored, because the types of situation are classified in drawers from which they are not removed. The universal right to compensation must be guaranteed. It would be fair, and it is our duty to express ourselves in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u307	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u308	The purpose of sections 1, 2 and 3 of this bill is to clarify and refine the arrangements, as well as to avoid unequal treatment of identical situations. I can attest, for following the hearings organized by Aurélien Pradié, that this was his will. Evidence shows that the way in which PCH is attributed and aid plans are drawn up differ according to the wealth of departments, particularly for cognitive and psychological disabilities. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] These articles would have deserved that the majority and the Government, instead of proposing to abolish them, sought to understand their meaning and to try to improve the situation. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore not vote for this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u309	I put to the vote Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u310	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 173 Number of votes cast 170 Absolute majority 86 For adoption 100 Against 70
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u311	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u312	But the majority is falling! Doubt is on the rise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u313	On Amendments Nos 14 and 10, and on Article 3, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u314	Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Republicans have been working to advance the cause of people with disabilities and improve their daily lives. On this and many others, we have always been a force of proposals in this House, and this is still the case today with this bill to ensure more justice and autonomy for people with disabilities. In the present case, Article 3 deals with the conditions for refusal to award the PCH. I would point out that this benefit allows persons with disabilities to receive financial assistance to cover the expenses associated with their loss of autonomy and thereby improve their living conditions. Through this article, we want to humanize the procedures for assessing the needs of persons with disabilities, by individualizing them as much as possible. Current administrative procedures very rarely allow vulnerable people to expose their needs. That is why we propose that the Act prohibit the denial of the PCH award to an applicant without its receipt and hearing by the decision-makers. Today, our assembly has the opportunity to show that society can be with people with disabilities to help and accompany them in their difficulties. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Eric Coquerel also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Last week, the presidential majority rejected the entire bill in committee, and you, Madam Secretary of State and colleagues of the majority, are in the process of doing the same this morning in the Chamber. You have decided to close your eyes to these problems facing our fellow citizens. Let me tell you this: it is simply unworthy when this subject should bring us together far beyond our political divisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to adopt Article 3 in order to greatly improve the lives of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u315	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u316	This has been recalled since the beginning of the morning, we all receive, for many months, a great deal of testimony: the people affected by these disastrous situations tell us their distress to have to choose between their marriage life and the payment of the adult disability allowance, explaining that they sometimes have to use all kinds of tricks to feign celibacy in order not to suffer the consequences of your choices. Section 3 provides that no refusal to award the PCH may be decided without the applicant being received and heard by the decision-makers. This article responds exactly to the demands of the associations aimed at humanising the PCH process: the objective is that fragile people themselves expose their needs so that the real and human appreciation takes precedence over the exclusively administrative character of the decision. Why refuse this article? You are just following your logic, which from the beginning directs you to pass a compressor roller over the entire bill of our colleague Pradié. Without any distinction, all articles will be systematically deleted. [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Mrs. Caroline Fiat applauds. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[New protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The most serious thing is when you correlate what you're doing this morning with everything you've done since 2017: you're the majority of the 38 billion euros in tax gifts to the richest in this country; you are the majority that allowed the 500 richest families in France to double their wealth; you are the majority who have increased the number of people living below the poverty line by almost 3 million; you are the majority of the 8 million people who need food aid and those young people we see waiting in front of the food banks and who you refuse the extended RSA; you are the majority who found the way, despite all these gifts to the most favored, to go scratch up to 5 euros of personal housing assistance (APL) to those who need it most. Your behavior this morning is unworthy, and the rejection of this article is unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u317	I call Mr Thierry Michels to support Amendment No. 14, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u318	Mr rapporteur, I obviously welcome your interest in people with disabilities in this last year's term of office,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u319	Ooh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u320	That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u321	...but the device you support goes against their interests. In fact, section 3 of your bill provides for the obligation of an interview prior to a refusal to award the PCH. On a constant basis, this provision would significantly increase the length of time required for investigation. Moreover, the article is already satisfied: as you know, a third-party conciliator accompanies the applicant and finds the best solution in case of refusal to award the PCH. Your proposal therefore runs counter to the measures taken by the presidential majority to make access to rights more effective – as proof of this, I am opposed to the life rights that have been in place since 2019 to avoid the congestion of the CDMH – and, even more so, to restore to our citizens the dignity that we owe them and to combat the phenomena of eviction, to which you referred, rapporteur. Finally, let us not forget the essential role of the departments, which are the leaders of social action. In 2021, EUR 25 million of funding was allocated to the CDMH to enable them to improve the service rendered and to combat the great injustice of unequal treatment in the territory. PCH allocation times vary from two to more than 11 months. Mr rapporteur, I hope that your department, the Lot, led by the left, will be able to seize the means given to it, as well as the neighbouring department of the Aveyron, led by the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u322	The disabled are neither left nor right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u323	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These data are not available in the CDMH barometer. How can we improve what we don't measure? Let no one come to give lessons because, let us say, the fight we have waged, on every bench, has only one goal, that of improving the effective rights of persons with disabilities for the construction of the inclusive society that we all wish. It's a fight that wins every day in the field. For all these reasons, the working Republic Group calls for the deletion of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u325	I would like to go into the details of this article and its objective. First, three digits: 95 per cent of requests to the CDMH are processed "on list". This means that only 5% of applications to the CDMH are the subject of a debate on the situation of applicants before the Departmental Commission for Persons with Disabilities. For 95% of applications, there is no specific review of situations before the relevant committee that makes the decision. This figure must scare us, because it creates situations that cause problems for everyone, especially the CDMH. I will add another figure: 82% of the requests made to the CDMH are processed exclusively on file, without the person requesting the PCH being ever met. The environment in which the person lives is evaluated in only 4% of cases – remember! These figures are those of the CNSA and the Court of Auditors – I do not imagine, Madam Secretary of State, that you do not have them in mind. What's the result? First of all, a considerable divorce – which we all see on a daily basis in our permanences – between our fellow citizens and the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u327	Let us not imagine that this is a detail, it is a major vector of crisis, including for political confidence. In a matter as singular and human as this, it is not possible for a single moment for more than 80% of applications to be examined without meeting the person.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u328	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u329	What does Article 3 propose? Quite simply, a minimum, applicable only in the case of PCH applications – not for all applications addressed to the CDMH – and only in cases of refusal – not even for all situations, that is to say how much we almost lack ambition. In situations where the PCH is about to be refused, the person must have been met in order to be assessed. Where is the revolutionary and unacceptable nature of this proposal? This is absolute evidence, yet absent from the law. The consequences will not be heavy for the CDMHs, because they will gain. Indeed, appeals against refusals to award the PCH explode and double each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u330	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u331	These remedies are the ones that most mobilize the services of the CDMH. Between conciliation operations that take extraordinary time and submissions to administrative tribunals, a lot of time is lost. Imagine that tomorrow, in case of refusal to award the PCH, we meet the applicant: not only will the applicant have access to all his rights, but the work of the CDMH will be facilitated. This is the only vocation of this article. How can you propose an amendment to delete a provision of such obvious interest? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Michels, I will conclude by observing that you are recidivism, a week after our debates in committee. I don't know where you were in 2018, maybe you weren't a member yet, but if you were a member of this assembly, you might remember that we had already tabled a bill on disability. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, FI, GDR and non-attached Members]] I will not allow you to give us lessons a second time; There is no political opportunism on this issue. We each have our lives and our stories (Murmurs on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups) – Secretary of State has her story of mother, I have my story of father. I know how, for many of us, including me, disability has been a founding factor in our political commitment. Pack up your lessons because you don't have to give them!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u332	We do not choose the dates of our parliamentary niches!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u334	Of course I know these figures, Mr rapporteur. Only, there was an amalgam: this is data from all files combined. Regarding the PCH, all people are met, as required by law. Let me read you an excerpt from article L. 146-8 of the Code of Social Action and Families: "A multidisciplinary team evaluates the compensation needs of the disabled person [...]. The multidisciplinary team visits the person's place of life either on its own initiative or at the request of the disabled person. We have already written everything; practices must now be improved. It is in this perspective that we are constantly working with the CNSA – which is the facilitator of the CDMH network – to increase territorial equity. There are still problems, we do not deny it. Practices must certainly be improved, but everything is already provided for in the law. I am therefore in favour of this amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u335	It's laborious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u336	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u337	Here's the ventriloquist!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u338	What is this article about? It is intended that a meeting with the main stakeholders, i.e. the disabled person or his or her parents, be organised before a decision is taken by the CDMH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u339	Didn't you hear what the Secretary of State said?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u340	Yesterday, I was in Nancy where I met Olivier whose son suffers from blindness. His kid goes back to school, but he doesn't get the assistance of an AESH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u341	Give us back Quatennens! You should change your speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u342	What's the father doing? He goes to the CDMH to meet with the people who made this decision. He's told me that's not possible. To be heard, he says he knows a Member of Parliament or I don't know any renowned cartoonist or singer. Out of fear, we let him through the door. Upstairs, he finds a few doctors in a room full of files. Finally, after a little explanation, the doctors tell him that this is a mistake and that they will correct it. Olivier then told them: "But for God's sake, you realize that 90% of people are not going to come to the CDMH, that they are not going to be able to climb up to your floor and are not going to be able to explain their situation to humans? All they're going to receive is a no; They will have to redo a file, while they have already filled out a lot, and challenge the decision before the courts and so on. » When decisions that are so important to the existence of families are at stake, it seems to me that the possibility of explaining to the people who take them is a measure of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u343	The Secretary of State has just explained that this is already the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u344	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is even the order of obviousness and banality. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the previous article. You tell us you'll go faster and further, but when? When will psychic disorders be taken into account?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u345	I put to the vote Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u346	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 167 Number of votes cast 166 Absolute majority 84 For adoption 97 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u347	I call Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u348	This amendment proposed by our group president, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, aims to rename the allowance for adults with disabilities as an allowance for the autonomy of adults with disabilities. Indeed, while it seems obvious that the AAH is an allowance paid to persons with disabilities in order to promote their autonomy, in particular their financial autonomy, it must be noted that this dimension is regularly called into question. Conditionalizing the payment of the allowance to household resources is symptomatic of this challenge. However, setting up a person with a disability in a household is a vector of autonomy, which is undermined by taking into account the spouse's income in the calculation of the AAH amount. The autonomy of persons with disabilities should not be based on family solidarity. Therefore, changing the title of the allowance by expressly stating that the purpose of the allowance is to promote the autonomy of persons with disabilities would restore the spirit of the scheme. As I pointed out in the general discussion, the very essence of this allowance is to promote the financial autonomy of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u350	In 1975, when the AAH was created, the then Secretary of State, René Lenoir, said: "The dignity of every man depends on his degree of autonomy, and autonomy requires sufficient and independent resources. The amendment you are defending fits perfectly into this vision. I would like to take this opportunity to commend your personal commitment for several years to the independence and autonomy of people with disabilities. The opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u351	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u352	I am, of course, against this amendment. The dimension of autonomy is also taken into account by the PCH: it is a whole. Self-reliance must be promoted in all parts of society, whether in school or in vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u353	Worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u354	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u355	The purpose of Article 4 is to remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the HFA. This allowance is a financial aid that ensures a minimum of resources for adults with disabilities due to a disability or chronic illness. More than 1 million of our compatriots benefit from this allowance, which can be up to 900 euros per month and which compensates for the fact that they cannot work. The amount of this allowance remains below the poverty line. Even more unfair, it decreases when the beneficiary is a couple and the spouse's income reaches 1126 euros. Members of the Republicans group are deeply attached to the family and to the concept of a home. But the case of persons with disabilities must be considered in a specific way, because it cannot be accepted that physically dependent persons are also financially dependent on their spouse: it is a question of dignity. The individualization of the AAH was the subject of broad consensus a few weeks ago in the National Assembly and the Senate among parliamentarians of all political sensitivities, before the Government and the parliamentary majority came back to this measure. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Madam Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to catch up and erase the shameful memory of your statements last June. We all have the opportunity this morning to move beyond our divisions to correct an immense injustice and to rise to the stakes. That is what our compatriots expect, especially those with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u357	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u358	We are in a situation which has already arisen in this House: when considering bills or amendments, all opposition groups propose a solution which the majority refuses, following instructions, I suppose, without having valid arguments to oppose. In these cases, we always hesitate between expressing our anger, because I assure you that a certain revolt is rising, or trying to convince you to change your position. I chose this second option. The greatness of our Republic and our nation is to believe that national solidarity prevails over any solidarity, family or other, in order to ensure that human and citizen rights – there is no question of human and family rights – are respected. Human and citizen rights, in particular through the equality they proclaim, primarily concern vulnerable people, and thus those with disabilities. By refusing deconjugalization therefore autonomy, you opt for dependence. Women often experience double dependency: they are forced to stay in couples that no longer go and they sometimes suffer violence, because they cannot live elsewhere. In other words, the refusal of deconjugalization is equivalent to a double penalty. It was proposed to you in 2018, then in 2021 where you rejected it at second reading when it was adopted first. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If the argument is financial, since I hear of a cost ranging from €560 million to €730 million, let us remember that the finance bill will soon be considered. We are told 11 billion euros of expenditure, which is likely to rise to 17 billion because we do not yet know what will be taken into account. Frankly, Members on all benches in the House would be happy to vote for an additional appropriation to pay for this deconjugation, the cost of which is nothing compared to the autonomy that you would offer to people who are now deprived of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u359	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u360	On Amendment No 15, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u361	Article 4 removes the increase in the AHA cumulation limit and the guaranteed remuneration for persons employed in ESAT. In this case, as in other cases, the deconjugalization proposal will result in losers, including in ESATs. We prefer to arrange the AAH so as to make no losers. This is what we have undertaken in the proposed law on various social justice measures, adopted on 17 June 2021, which amended the system of taking into account the spouse's income to increase the ceiling. We therefore call for the deletion of Article 4, and I will again explain in Article 5 the reasons why we are opposed to deconjugalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u363	We are dealing with a series of three articles on the deconjugalization of the AAH. Madam Member, you are announcing that you will repeat to us why you are opposed to it, but I can assure you that we will repeat to you as long as necessary why we are in favour of it. Behind abstract notions, it may be useful to clarify what we are talking about in practice. The purpose of this article is to ensure that an ESAT worker, who has a guaranteed income and whose level of pay is neither yours nor mine, can benefit from this guaranteed minimum wage regardless of the income of her spouse. In essence, we defend the value of work and dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, LT, FI and GDR groups]] In the current situation, a worker in a specialized establishment, whose level of pay is already extremely low, loses the benefit of the AAH if he or she is a couple. His salary level is even reduced according to the spouse's income. I don't think your pay or mine is conditional on that of our spouses. I do not see why what would be quite unbearable for all of us would be acceptable to workers with disabilities who are not already paid as they should. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, LT, FI and GDR groups]] This is the subject of Article 4. And let our fellow citizens understand that you are about to remove it altogether, with disconcerting coldness, and to further penalize workers in specialized establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u365	I object to the rapporteur's comments. The current methods of calculating the AAH for an ESAT worker do not take into account the spouse's income, but the composition of the family...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u366	Which is exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u367	... in order to increase the amount of AAH paid by 30% of the SMIC for a couple beneficiary and by an additional 15% per child. The provision you propose would result in a net loss of several hundred euros for each ESAT worker in a couple or in a family.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u368	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u369	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You will therefore understand that I am in favour of this amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u370	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u371	The only argument against this article concerns people working in ESAT, about 44,000 individuals. I refer you to Article 7, which provides that the persons concerned will have the option, until 2031, of retaining the current regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u372	And what do you do with the principle of equality?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u373	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u374	I would like to share with our colleagues the literature we have received from the association APF France handicap, on behalf of a collective that brings together more than fifteen associations of families, as well as the Collectif handicaps. At the beginning of our discussions, they made it clear to us that they wanted the deconjugalization of the AAH. Parliamentary work, undertaken since 2017 by various political groups, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, and included in this article, is swept away by a turn of hands. This request from civil society, which has created a parliamentary consensus, is rejected at all costs by a bloc. You reject a social reality and a citizen's expectation that this article finally satisfied after many attempts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Our conception and yours clearly diverge, and I regret that your only answer is to delete this article rather than seek to modify and improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u375	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u376	We will vote against this deletion amendment, following the logic that the Group of the European People's Party has been defending since 2017. When the majority had proposed to increase the AAH, we had already raised the problem of deconjugalization. We do not agree with the very definition of the AAH, we take our position in favour of deconjugation of this allocation and we will vote against the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u377	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u378	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u379	There is a fundamental difference on this subject. The first three articles of this proposal were devoted to PCH, and we all recognized that work should be done on this although we did not follow your proposals. With regard to the AAH, we believe that our system of solidarity must take into account the income of the family in the broad sense: this is an important element that must be maintained. The deconjugation of the AAH would threaten the entire model of solidarity allowances by the side effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u380	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u381	That is why we support the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u382	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u383	We are addressing the core of this bill, the issue of deconjugalization, which focuses on concerns. We will probably not be able to agree, if we believe our discussions last June and this morning Together with my colleagues in the IDU-I group, we believe that deconjugalization makes the AAH a real universal benefit and not a social minimum subject to the spouse's income level. If the AAH is considered to be a universal benefit, it should be deconjugated. That is why the independent UDI Group will vote against the amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u384	I put to the vote Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u385	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 172 Number of votes cast 169 Absolute majority 85 For adoption 92 Against 77
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u386	On Amendment No 16 and on Article 5, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Nathalie Porte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u387	This section complements section 4, which your majority has sadly deleted, as did the first three sections of this bill. The Republican Group considers it essential to deconjugate the AAH. This benefit is paid, subject to medical conditions, to more than 1 million of our citizens who are separated from work by disability. With a full rate of 903 euros, the aid begins to decline as the spouse earns more than 1020 euros per month – it's true that he's rich with it! In addition to physical dependence, 270,000 beneficiaries in couples are financially dependent. This dependency is particularly difficult to live with. It creates a sense of needlessness, dependence and loss of dignity among persons with disabilities. Many of them refuse to marry or live with their spouses in order not to lose or see their allowance reduced. For this reason, the Defender of Rights expressed her support for deconjugalization, in the total indifference of the Government. Your solution, Madam Secretary of State – increasing the reduction on the spouse's income – establishes an unfair mechanism that reveals the two wrongs of the presidential majority: the analysis of social issues by accounting alone and a clear lack of listening and consultation with associations, caregivers and families. As a reminder, the provisions of article 5 have already been the subject of broad consensus in the National Assembly and the Senate on various bills, before the Government objects to them. In committee, all the political groups welcomed our proposal; All except those of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, avoid a guilty denial of reality. Let us address this social injustice together. Our fellow citizens who live in a situation of disability do not have to wait until tomorrow to live with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u388	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u389	Oh, no, not him...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u390	[[The Secretary of State protested]] In order to oppose the deconjugation of the allowance for adults with disabilities, the Secretary of State cited the case of her daughter who would lose tax on it. However, outside, associations – APF France handicap, Collectif handicaps, UNAFAM, etc. – unanimously demand this measure. The rapporteur referred to his father. I am very lucky to have no one with a disability in my family; This does not prevent me from paying attention to this problem. [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Two days ago, in Strasbourg, on Place Kléber, I met Thomas, a young man in a wheelchair, under a 24-hour artificial respirator, who suffers from myopathy. He was a student in DUT information-communication; We put him, for Christmas holidays, in temporary accommodation, and that's where he met Isabelle, medical-psychological helper, fully valid. They talk to each other, they like each other. He who, until then, was deprived of emotional life, discovers love. There's a right. They live together, they are pacing and – patatras! – its only income, the AAH, increases from 900 to 100 euros per month. He lives on Isabelle's hooks, as if life and love were not already complicated enough without it. His wife said, "It's like he's still a minor. She pleads for him: "It is as if society did not recognize him as an adult. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] Today, you are alone against thousands of Thomas and Isabelle, putting financial sticks in the wheels of their love. But despite you, despite everything, Thomas and Isabelle are going to get married next summer. Here too, I'm sure, love will win and we'll pass this law!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u391	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u392	Mr rapporteur, just now you were calling for modesty and regretting that some of us are referring to their personal situation. But it's human. It is often a response to repeated attacks and a feeling of injustice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u393	And what do we do?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u394	You're talking about autonomy; I will also talk to you about autonomy, or rather the real difficulties in accessing it. When you are a spouse, parent or child helper, you do not carry the disability alone, you carry it with your family. It is the whole home that suffers the consequences, that has to adapt to the handicap and that is solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u395	What about the dignity of the person?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u396	[[Protests on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and FI groups]] I don't have the same vision of love and family as you, I'm sorry! I've been a helping child for forty years. We knew her as a family. The fact of being dependent – always, all and all – we have known him as a family. Not being able to go everywhere, to go everywhere, to do as everyone else, we knew him as a family. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Where was your political family for all these years, Mr. Pradie? What has she done for us all these years? My dad dreamt of life rights, we did! In terms of accessibility and the ability to travel everywhere, we too have accelerated things. I only regret that my dad isn't here to see what we've achieved. He would have been proud!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u397	It's not modesty that stifles you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u398	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u399	[[Applause from the SOC and LR groups. – Extended exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I invite you to more modesty, for a simple reason: you are in the government, you are acting, it is still happy! Do not feel superior to all because you have taken some action. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the SOC, IUD-I, FI and GDR benches]] Unfortunately, many things continue to fail. I invite you to look at everything that is dysfunctional about disability. Monday, I was in a specialized foster home (MAS), which lost 20% of caregivers; The sheltered persons remain without care for 48 hours and may experience serious difficulties or even death. Deconjugation is an important measure as it restores dignity to the persons concerned; But there is still a lot of work to be done on disability, and you should do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u400	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u401	We are all concerned about this issue, which refers both to the general philosophy of our social model and to policy towards persons with disabilities. The challenge of deconjugalisation alone crystallises all the debates between the beneficiary's demand for financial autonomy and the principle of national solidarity. Many questions have been agitating us for several months. What impact will the individualization of social minima have on our household-based model of society? If we individualize the AAH, does that not mean that we have failed in our inclusive society project? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC, UDI-I and FI groups]] The La République group cannot resolve to question national and family solidarity. I am talking about values and not rights: I am both committed to the family and convinced of the need to continue our efforts towards an inclusive society. We all agree that every person with disabilities must receive compensation in their daily lives, but the PCH already plays this role. Of course, the criteria for human aid need to be changed, but it also requires the departments. Then we may be lame, technical, inhuman and alone, but we are brave. We assume our policy and make a choice of society, that of maintaining national and family solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u403	We are dealing with an essential issue on which both sides will demonstrate their convictions. Madame Cloarec - Le Nabour, I was talking to you earlier about modesty; Do you want us to do a contest, reminding you of your father, me of mine,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u404	Stop with that, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u405	...Mrs. Secretary of State, her daughter? That's not necessary. Whatever we have experienced, we are all here convinced of the need for the measures we are defending. It's not about unpacking our lives – I've never done it and maybe you shouldn't have done it –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u406	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u407	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... to justify unjustifiable positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u408	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u409	There are methods in which we must not fall. On the bottom, let's go back to what the AAH is. You mix everything: national solidarity, redistribution, lump-sum allowances, family solidarity. But what is the AAH? This allowance compensates for the often permanent inability of a person with a disability to enter the world of work like you and me. So this is not a social minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u410	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u411	First, the situation in question is often final, and even when it is not, it is never intended. A distinction must be made between the situation of the beneficiary of the RSA, which is short-term, and that of a person with a disability. These two situations have nothing to do with each other and cannot be mixed. Beyond the elements of principle – you must understand that the AAH is not a social minimum – social minima and the AAH are treated, in our law, by two different codes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u412	Of course! It's not the same thing, it has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u413	It's an easy excuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u414	In the case of appeals, they fall under two different jurisdictions: the Social Action Code and the Family Code for the one, and the Social Security Code for the other. If the legislator has classified these two benefits in two different codes, it is because they should not be treated in the same way. We've been telling you for months – my colleague Jeanine Dubie has worked on it for a long time – you're mixing things that don't have to be mixed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u415	What you're saying has nothing to do with the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u416	Are we the only ones who think so? No, all associations agree. You would talk about what the associations would say about the PCH; I'm surprised you don't quote their AAH claims with the same eagerness! Curious ability that one to be the spokespersons of associations when it suits you and to forget them when it does not help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u417	They're not to any contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u418	[[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] A few days ago, all 24 associations in the sector signed a rare appeal calling on the Government to deconjugate the AAH. When considering the last text on the issue – don't tap on your desk, Madame Cloarec - The Nabour is useless! – you had to pass through the blocked vote to make sure that everyone, including in your ranks, followed the instructions. When everyone agrees – all associations, all oppositions and up to some members of the majority – how could you be the only ones to be right? Above and beyond the House, all jurisdictions agree with us. The Defender of Rights demands the deconjugalization of the AAH in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u419	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u420	A few days ago, the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also urged France to correct this anomaly, which is rare in Europe. Everyone asks us to do so, including the authorities to which we are bound by international commitments. And you would be the only ones to have the accounting, technical and administrative truth that drives you, for reasons that no one understands, to continue to penalize a person with a disability because he or she has the misfortune, or rather the happiness, of living with his or her spouse or spouse? It is time to move from words to deeds. Behind each of the situations we are talking about, there are incredibly painful realities. You propose lump-sum arrangements that would change the level of the AAH; But since Nicolas Sarkozy, all governments, including under François Hollande, have systematically increased this allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u421	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u422	A double-fold increase compared to the one we have applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u423	The increases under Nicolas Sarkozy represented twice yours. The measure we submit to you remains necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would remind you that the full rate AAH is 900 and a few euros. For this amount, do people with disabilities have to do alms and beg? We owe them this compensation. It is time to move from words to deeds: this bill offers us the opportunity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u424	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u425	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have moved from words to deeds. We have heard that there is a need to redistribute more and to introduce the possibility of retaining the allowance despite the pairing, longer and with a higher amount. That is what we will be presenting in the context of the finance bill. That is our answer, which we keep, absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u426	You don't seem very convinced of what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u427	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u428	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Confronting the inclusive model and total incapacity for work is inconsistent. We're talking about people with a work disability, who are entitled to the AAH, that you're taking away from them because they fell in love and live with a spouse. That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u429	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u430	You say you want to live in an inclusive society but what is your model? A person falls in love: welcome to inclusive society, more rights! And you're proud of it? I'm not. You often take examples, I'll give you one. A woman in Brittany fell in love and decided to go live with her new friend. She lost her AAH, obviously,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u431	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u432	...but here it is, the friend in question realizes that he does not bear the burden of this woman's disability. He says goodbye and puts her out. Who here thinks the AAH recovers overnight?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u433	It takes ten days!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u434	It ends up with zero euros per month. Of course, she will find the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u435	In eight days!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u436	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] No, she's been living with a friend for two months, very nice to have welcomed her home. Luckily she has this friend, otherwise what would she have done, she would have become homeless? How many women do not leave their homes because they do not have financial autonomy? And you're proud of that, are you shouting it here? I don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u437	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u438	Minister, I would like to answer several of your questions and concerns about the deconjugalization of the AAH. You tell us that this is a social minimum when it is a special benefit which depends on the family branch and falls within the scope of the social security code.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u439	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u440	You say that if we go on this path, it would affect all family benefits that are subject to a condition of income. No, you forget that, to benefit from the AAH, you need medical recognition of incapacity...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u442	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... of 80 % to receive the entire allowance or a rate between 50 and 79 % to receive a part of it. This rate of incapacity is assessed in relation to a long-term restriction on access to employment. It is therefore because one cannot exercise a job, a medically recognised incapacity, that one is entitled to this allowance. This does not apply to other social benefits. You're afraid there will be losers. That's right, that's why Senator Philippe Mouille introduced a 10-year interim arrangement. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and IDU-I groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Finally, I would point out, after Aurélien Pradier, that we were called to order by the Defender of Rights, by the CNCDH and, most recently, in July, by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which invites us to deconjugate the AAH. The President of the Republic himself, at the Conference on Disability, acknowledged that the AAH was not a social minimum since he did not include it – he told the associations – in the universal income of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u443	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u444	Listening to you, we would be the only ones defending the conjugalization of the AAH. Deconjugation seems to be so obvious that we wonder how it suddenly appeared in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u445	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u446	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] You, members of the Republican and Socialist groups, have been in charge: it was not obvious at that time? Why didn't you? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is a real subject of political conception. The campaign of the presidential election offers you a unique opportunity: defend this measure, which reflects a completely respectable choice. I've been looking for statements from your respective, or supposed, candidates in this sense, but no one has mentioned it. Take this step and take on the effects we're talking about! We are in favour of conjugalization as it exists in our social protection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u447	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u448	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will continue to vote against the majority amendments supported by the Government, for all reasons put forward by our colleagues. It is rather sad to see that your majority, which it seemed to have formed on the idea that the right and left could work together, agree and advance on common causes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u449	Famous new practices! Let's talk about it! Let's talk about the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u450	... is unable to adopt this attitude on an important philosophical issue which relates to the rights of individuals and which brings together virtually all the forces of this country. Where's your consistency? I'm surprised to hear you put forward cleavage arguments rather than trying to bring us together...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u451	Hey, yeah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u452	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] ...on something that concerns us all and, first and foremost, people with disabilities and their families, of which we know how unbearable they are in situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u453	Mrs Véronique Hammerer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u454	Mr Pradier, from 2008 to 2012, Mr Sarkozy, like us, increased the AAH by 25%, but he did nothing about deconjugation. Ms Bachelot, then Minister of Health, explained during a question-and-answer session to the Government: "As regards taking into account the spouse's resources when calculating the AAH, this is a social minimum...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u455	But Mrs. Bachelot is at your house!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u456	...guarantee to any person recognized as disabled, not a compensatory allowance. As a result, the HFA is a subsidiary delivery in relation to the recipient's other resources. She added: "This explains why such income is taken into account in the calculation of the HAA. If it wasn't, we can imagine the possible drifts. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Walls on the benches of the LR group]] Under François Hollande, in 2016, the Sirugue report called for a rethink of social minima based on a common cover-socle. Many recommendations have been made, but nothing on deconjugalization. So let me ask myself about the real meaning of this PPL!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u457	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u458	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Since 2017, you've been doing the job of replacing the old world with the new, supposedly pragmatic and blind to partisan differences. Today, but this is not the first time, you bring the demonstration to the contrary. Get off the masks! You are not able to vote on this proposal, which responds to the demands of associations and social progress, on the pretext that it was not tabled by someone in your ranks. It is not to please us, but to the well-being and social rights of the people concerned. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Both the Government and the majority must stop looking systematically in their mirrors. You are responsible for the affairs of the country and the preparation of the future, you have responsibilities, assume them and cease to always send us back to 2008, to 1995, why not before? The future is ahead, not behind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u459	It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u460	I put to the vote Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u461	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 175 Number of votes cast 171 Absolute majority 86 For adoption 99 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u462	Colleagues, some of you would like the discussion of the text to be concluded before the sitting is adjourned: it is up to you, but we still have four articles left.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u463	That won't be possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u464	I'll put the deal in your hands, if I may say so. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u465	A few words about article 6 and the two precedents that relate to the same subject. The Republicans Group proposes to write a new page for the rights of persons with disabilities. It is a choice that goes beyond politics, it is a choice of society that we make. At the end of our discussions, we will be able to measure everyone's commitment and I must admit that the self-satisfaction of this majority will not cease to amaze me. It is not possible that, after being self-sufficient and financially independent, a person with a disability, because he or she is married, must be financially dependent on his or her spouse for the rest of his or her life. This is not the idea that Republicans think about the integration of people with disabilities. The deconjugation of the AAH is a request expressed – as you know very well, Madam Secretary of State – by many associations and to find it in Aurélien Pradié's bill is not without foundation. Yet, this time again, your majority shows a blatant lack of empathy towards people with disabilities. It is to be believed that the Government and the deputies of the majority remain systematically deaf to the demands of the most fragile. No, the AAH is not a social minimum like the others, we keep telling you this since this morning: it is a benefit that ensures the possibility for the most fragile to live independently financially. [[Mrs ValérieBeauvaisapplaudit]] You are not at the meeting of the fight against disability, as you have not been in the previous months. To almost philosophical subjects, you oppose legal arguments and you sneeze on definitions. We regret it, we ask you to live up to the challenges and follow our proposals. This is what the world expects of all disabled people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u466	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u467	One of the good entrances to try to convince you is the one opened by Thierry Benoit on the question of whether the AAH is a universal allocation. If this is the case, any person entitled to receive this allowance must be equal to another person, regardless of his or her situation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] From this point of view, the situation must be compared with that of women before the Law of 13 July 1965 on the Reform of Matrimonial Regimes. Prior to that date, women did not have the right to work or open a bank account without their husband's consent, so that, as the great historian Michelle Perrot had explained, a single woman had more rights than a married woman. It's exactly the same thing. Does a disabled person have more or less rights according to their marital status? Philosophically, we cannot accept such a situation! That is what the subject of deconjugalization covers! I hope that this will convince some of you that the votes on the amendments are getting tighter and tighter.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u468	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-10-07-O1005.u469	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law on more justice for persons with disabilities; Motion for a resolution to combat the disappearance of bees; Continuation of the proposal for a law aimed at rationalizing the development of wind energy; Bill to create a student restaurant ticket; Motion for a resolution to relocate and create a French industry for the production and recycling of health protection masks; Proposal for a law to allow the transfer of the rights entered in the personal training account between account holders; Proposal for a law on the support of parents of children with serious illnesses. The meeting is adjourned.
