ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u2	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor to put his question, No. 1500, on the development of data on recidivism and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u3	The Observatoire de la récidive et de la désistance, created by the 2009 prison law and installed on 26 April 2016 by one of your predecessors, is responsible for collecting and analysing data existing in France and abroad on the phenomenon of recidivism and withdrawal – that is, the process by which a person emerges from delinquency. Moreover, the decree establishing the observatory states: "It will make these data and analyses available to all the target audiences in the form, inter alia, of an annual and public report. It will make any useful recommendations to improve knowledge of observed phenomena. » Since then, however, a single report has been published in 2017, which made concrete and, I believe, common sense recommendations. It must therefore be noted that the will of the legislator in creating this body, now twelve years ago, has remained a pious wish. As the departmental director of public security of Val-d'Oise, Frédéric Lauze, whom I welcome, pointed out, the stakes are nevertheless of importance: through scientific knowledge of delinquent behaviour, it is a question of finding the best ways to promote the exit of crime in order to translate them into effective public policies. According to the justice statistical references, 40% of those convicted in 2018 are in a state of recidivism or repetition: this figure is sufficient to demonstrate the full value of deepening the knowledge in this field. What do you intend to do to finally allow the Observatory for Recidivism and Disengagement to publish its annual work, as the legislator has wished?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u4	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u5	I could reply that I do not intend to do anything, since by the end of June the report will be submitted and communicated to you. It is indeed essential to know the figures for recidivism. We have worked hard to combat this phenomenon, in particular by strengthening staff in different jurisdictions or by working in the general interest, and by shortening the time taken to deal with cases. Indeed, for educational reasons, it seems to me important that justice be done quickly, because the faster it is, the more effective it is – especially for young people. We also strengthened prison work: 20 years ago, 50 per cent of prisoners were working, compared to only 29 per cent today. So I'm fighting for entrepreneurs to return to prison, because it's a guarantee of reintegration and, therefore, of no recidivism. Let us not forget that the media treatment of cases leads to talking about cases of recidivism, but not those where it is avoided. So you are right: it is very useful that we have precise figures. I wanted it so much that I asked earlier – therefore anticipating your question – for a report to be submitted to me: it will be submitted by the end of June. We will, of course, have the opportunity to discuss it together, which may make it possible to make more fine choices in our criminal policy. The aim is obviously not to deny the prison, it is to allow it to be also a vector of reintegration: it is our collective interest, and I watch over it, know it, with great attention and interest. Thank you for this particularly relevant question.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u6	The next speaker is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, to put his question, No. 1492, on the implementation of the reform of community justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u7	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, on 15 December 2020, you signed the circular on the implementation of the reform on community justice: this is a great step forward for all our territories, especially the inhabitants of Barbès, the republican reconquest district (QRR) of the 18th arrondissement. Indeed, despite the efforts made for many years by the national police and all local actors, the inhabitants of this district note that the public space remains massively caught up in crime and drug trafficking. Many people's complaints, when they are actually filed, are not investigated: sometimes they are not even followed up, several years after they are filed, which prevents any means of action against delinquency. While the exceptional work of the police is visible on the ground, its efforts do not always lead to tangible results. This is partly due to the fact that judicial proceedings and sanctions are not always carried out quickly, leaving the feeling of impunity intact. The reform of the community justice system will make it possible to remedy these situations and to provide concrete responses to the incivilities and petty crime of everyday life, in particular through the recruitment of additional staff dedicated to the promotion of prohibitions to appear ordered by the public prosecutor and the development of new partnerships with local actors, as is the case with the work of general interest, including the principle – "You break, you repair; you dirty, you clean" – is now enshrined in the law. This mechanism to combat incivilities is a quick and useful penalty of reparation, effective against recidivism. But while these new levers are essential and need to be welcomed, our citizens now expect results. So, can you tell us to what extent these additional staff will be assigned as a matter of priority to the judicial treatment of cases involving republican reconquest districts? Furthermore, will the new alternatives to prosecution be introduced quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u8	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u9	You're asking an essential question, which scares our compatriots: how can we solve the issue of low-intensity crime, which literally rots the lives of our fellow citizens? So far, petty delinquency – I say "small", but you understand the meaning of the expression – was no longer, or badly treated. The budget you voted for has made it possible to find sufficient means to establish community justice. In criminal cases, 1,000 additional staff were assigned to all jurisdictions. In civil matters – because we must also think about it – a plan for hiring 1,000 people is under way: never in the past 25 years had justice been provided with such means. That being said, there is a quick answer – I quote Dimitri Houbron, who has used this formula on many occasions in the gallery: "You break, you repair", in other words, "you compensate", all in a very short time, since from 18 months initially, cases are now dealt with in a particularly short time. In the context of community justice reform, we have doubled the number of prosecutors' delegates: it's not nothing! For example, in your home, Mr. Member of Parliament, the judicial court in Paris has benefited from thirty-five additional legal assistants and registry reinforcements. Of course, it is up to the heads of jurisdiction to assign the staff according to the needs: the Chancery cannot, of course, intervene to require that such staff be assigned to the treatment of a particular crime. I recall that some prosecutors, for example, decided to assign a lawyer to the relationship between the prosecutor's office and local elected officials, who were sometimes somewhat lost and did not receive a judicial response or advice, especially when they issued a call to order, a measure without any solemnity. Thus, in some prosecutors' offices, a prosecutor's representative is now present when the mayor decides on such a measure. The workforce has been operational since December and a number of local initiatives are aimed, among other things, at the application of the alternative measures you have mentioned, which are absolutely essential to ensure the prompt treatment of low-intensity crime. I have the honour to announce that a first assessment will be made by the end of the month – June is the month of hope! The report will of course be sent to you. Thanks to the information provided to me, I already know that local justice is effective and that the results of this policy are convincing. On this issue which concerns me as much as you, which concerns us all, our assessment will be truly positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u10	Mrs Maud Petit, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1522, concerning the fight against child crime on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u11	Minister of Justice, several weeks ago, I met with the citizens' collective Team Moore, which fights against child crime on the Internet. Its operation is inspired by the actions of our Anglo-Saxon neighbours in this field: creating fake profiles of children on social networks, they find, without provocation to the crime, situations of child criminality. For having had access to some exchanges, I can assure you that the magnitude of the phenomenon is frightening. In the United Kingdom, activists are working with the British police to digitally compromise child criminals. In France, Team Moore has the same objective, and would like to work together with the police and the judiciary in a legal framework. Such collaboration is already effective on the ground, since last April, in Haute-Saône, the collective sent the Besançon Judicial Police a file containing screen copies of sexual discussions between a man and the one he thought was a 12-year-old child. A sentence of ten months' imprisonment was imposed on the man, accompanied by a socio-judicial follow-up with a duty of care for five years. There is of course no question here of replacing the police and the justice system: it is a question of being an aid, a relay, an additional force in the fight against child crime on the Internet, a real scourge for our children. The involvement of citizens on the ground is not a new phenomenon: there are several collectives of citizens, such as the "watchful Neighbours" scheme, which alerts law enforcement officials and accelerates their intervention in the event of burglary. Participatory public policies are also an invitation from institutions to direct action by citizens. While the intention of Team Moore is commendable, I think it is necessary and time to think about a legal framework to avoid any drift on such a sensitive subject. This framework, which would define both the possibilities and the limits of such collaboration, is also a wish of the collective. Minister, what is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u12	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u13	Child crime is a phenomenon against which we must of course fight with all our forces. You are suggesting the idea of extending to all citizens the possibility of intervening in investigations: I am very sorry, because I think that the risks of drift are very important. That citizens denounce such facts when they are aware of them, is the least; Then, everyone must remain in their place: I do not ask the police or magistrates to be bakers, I ask them to be police officers or magistrates! The risk seems very important to me, because the police officers, gendarmes and magistrates who deal with this issue have learned the ethics; They have been sworn in and work in the service of the Republic. Allowing citizens to enter into an investigation – I repeat – would make them take risks. That they denounce facts, I agree, but let them intervene in the process of criminal procedure seems to me very worrying. Of course, you will always find an example in which citizen collaboration has been effective. But for an effective case, how many risks of drift or slipping? I would like to point out that police officers and gendarmes must act strictly in accordance with the criminal procedure and, in this case, with the so-called "instruction under pseudonym" (ESP) technique provided for in article 230-46 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is conducted under the supervision of the public prosecutor or the investigating judge, which offers many guarantees. As you know, we cannot lead to the commission of the offence: it is the limit, the red line, set by the Code of Criminal Procedure. I therefore hear the idea and recognize its laudable character: it makes sense. However, it seems to me to be sufficiently dangerous and liable to lead to drifts for me to express an unfavorable opinion on such a proposal. Justice is the case of magistrates. The police are the police and the gendarmerie. The law is the case of parliamentarians. Everyone must be in his place and we must not allow any drifts that are always possible. Criminal procedure protects our freedoms. But this procedure is learned: you integrate it and you see it when you are a police officer, a gendarmerie or a magistrate. I am therefore very cautious, Madam Member, about your idea. I recognize that it would probably be very effective, but the custody of seals is a guarantee of the rule of law and of criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u14	The floor is open to Mr Guillaume Larrivé, to put his question, No. 1510, concerning the centre -15 of Auxerre.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u15	Madam Minister Delegate responsible for autonomy, I wish once again to question the Government on a conflict that exists between the Director General of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) of Burgundy-Franche-Comté and the entire department of Yonne. This conflict concerns a very important issue for us: the ARS wants to remove the emergency call control centre, the centre -15, currently located within the hospital centre of Auxerre, to transfer it to Dijon. This project is part of the regional health project agreed by the RSA. In the Yonne, we do not want this abolition – the pronoun "we" is really understood in the broad sense of the term, since 330 communes, bringing together more than 4,300 elected, deliberated in this direction. The departmental council, the departmental fire and rescue service (SDIS), the entire hospital or liberal medical community, the paramedics, all bodies of health democracy: the whole department says no to the abolition of the "centre 15" of Auxerre and its transfer to Dijon. However, we do not simply refuse this deletion: we have a departmental project. We want to install in Auxerre a joint departmental platform on the 15th and 18th to create a unique centre for receiving and regulating emergency and emergency calls. For that, we simply need the Government not to put sticks in our wheels – sorry to say so. I send this message on the occasion of every ministerial visit to the Yonne. I also pleaded this in Matignon, with the Prime Minister's office. Through you, Madam Minister Delegate, I hope that we will be heard by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. There is no reason to accept that the SRA will, in a bureaucratic manner, persist in implementing a scheme for everything to be transferred to Dijon. We have a departmental project, which federates all the actors on the ground: let us work, at the service of the health of the inhabitants of Yonne and in favor of proximity. Our rural department has many advantages but it faces a threat of medical desertification, which would be aggravated if the projects of the ARS were unfortunately realized.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u16	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u17	You are asking me, honourable Member, about the future of the call reception and regulation centre at the 15th of the Yonne, which I would remind you is not a government project. The regional health project agreed by the Director of the RSA in July 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u18	Isn't it the government that's arresting him?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u19	... after a very broad consultation, plans to entrust to the University Hospital Centre (CHU) in Dijon – as you recalled – the regulation of calls to the UAS of Yonne. The Burgundy-Franche-Comté region has long developed interdepartmental centres -15. This policy began at the CHU de Besançon, for the four French-speaking departments, and extended more recently to the CHU de Dijon, for the benefit of the départements of Nièvre and Côte-d'Or. These organisational arrangements are not based on a uniform national policy but are part of the territorial assessment of the organizational needs for emergency care. They result from the work of the ARS of Franche-Comté and then Burgundy-Franche-Comté, whose mission is precisely to adapt the organisation of care to the reality of the field. In this case, the demography of the departments concerned and the strain on the resources of emergency doctors have led to these interdepartmental organisations, which aim both to guarantee the quality of the medical regulation of emergency calls and to ensure the reinforcement of local emergency medical teams by the CHU teams. With regard to the medical regulation of calls to 15, the period of health crisis that we are going through naturally led to the suspension of the work planned within the framework of the regional health project but, as soon as the health situation permits, the ARS of Burgundy-Franche-Comté will not fail to reopen the consultation on this issue, including of course with the elected representatives of the territory that you have mentioned, Mr. In this connection, I would like to point out that medical regulation is based on a call centre dedicated to the orientation of emergency medical resources, aimed at triggering care by the UAS if an individual's state of health so requires. These changes, on the other hand, do not alter the activity of the UAS. Contrary to the fears you have expressed in this House, Mr President, about the future of the health helicopter based in the department, the hospital in Auxerre has been benefiting since October 2020 from a brand new aircraft, as part of a nine-year regional contract. This proves, if necessary, the commitment of the SRA to the continuous and sustainable improvement of emergency care services in the Yonne department: the reorganization of referral centres cannot affect the care of emergency care in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u20	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u21	You say, Madam Deputy Minister, that the project is not a government policy. The Director General of the SRA is under the authority of the Minister of Solidarity and Health and, therefore, under your authority. You are talking about consultation, but there is none: when 330 communes deliberated in favour of a joint departmental platform on the 15th and 18th, the ARS could perhaps consider that the terrain has expressed itself and, unless it considers that it has the truth revealed, make an effort to listen to the needs of the field. When a department rises to such an extent against a decision of the administration, it must listen to the needs it expresses. We believe that it is necessary to authorise the joint departmental platform on the 15th and 18th. I regret your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. I apologise for saying so directly, but it is very disappointing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u22	I call Mr Le Fur to speak on his question No 1511 concerning the placing on the market and the management of the medicine Kaftrio.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u23	The cystic fibrosis affects thousands of people in our country. For years, thanks to the progress of research and the mobilization of each other, progress has been made, which translates into life expectancy and daily life. There is still no cure for cystic fibrosis, but drugs have a significant effect on the symptoms of this dreadful disease. This is particularly the case with the medicine Kaftrio, on which the conclusions of the various studies carried out are unanimous: it is revolutionary. The High Health Authority (HAS) welcomed its effectiveness by granting it an improvement in level 2 medical service, which almost corresponds to the maximum level. The European Medicines Agency has recently authorised the placing of the medicine on the European market, but in our country treatment is only prescribed on a compassionate basis, that is to say, for people whose health is very poor. The taking of Kaftrio has changed the lives of these patients. Their respiratory capacity has increased by an average of 15 points: they are reviving. [[Guillaume Larrivée applauds]] With the placing on the market of the Kaftrio drug in France, more than 3,000 patients over the age of 12 could be eligible for this innovative treatment. Many of our neighbours have done so, so what are we waiting for to act? That is the question for the families concerned. Our fellow citizens affected by cystic fibrosis have been waiting for several months. That is why they are asking the Government to clarify its intentions for the next marketing and for the next treatment of the Kaftrio medicine – so useful, according to the information available, for patients with cystic fibrosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u24	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u25	I share your observation, Mr. Member, and your major concern for this pathology. You are right: the clinical efficacy of the drug you are quoting, Kaftrio, and the promises to improve the health status of some of the patients with cystic fibrosis, are remarkable. Let me remind you that for many years France has had a recognised system allowing patients to have access to medicines that are presumed to be innovative even before they are authorised to place them on the market by the European Medicines Agency or the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM). This possibility is offered where a therapeutic need exists, and the tariff conditions are quite advantageous for the manufacturer. The implementation of this device, however, implies that the laboratory wants to commit itself to it. It must be noted that this option was unfortunately not chosen by the commercializing laboratory Kaftrio, which has nevertheless agreed to deliver this medicine for some patients on a compassionate basis, as you indicate. Following the opinion of the Committee on Transparency of the HAS of 18 November 2020 to which you refer, which recognises the innovation that this medicine represents, the tariff negotiations started at the end of February between the laboratory and the Economic Committee for Health Products (CEPS). The dynamism and outcome of these negotiations necessarily depend on the two actors involved. In this context, Kaftrio is now in its eighth phase. All members of the CEPS are fully aware of the interest of this product and share with you, MP, the desire for the fastest possible access to this treatment for patients currently with cystic fibrosis. The mobilisation of all CEPS members nevertheless makes it possible to estimate that an agreement can be reached in the short term, in compliance with the legislative and conventional rules of pricing which are applied to all laboratories on the basis of fair treatment. These rules contribute in particular to the preservation of the ability of health insurance to take care of the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis. Pending this agreement, the State wishes to be able to issue a temporary authorisation for use but cannot do so without prior request from the laboratory. Fortunately, in the most difficult cases, responses can be put in place on a case-by-case basis. Be assured, honourable Member, of the full mobilization of the teams to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u26	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u27	[[Guillaume Larrivée applauds]] Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for your reasoned and precise answer. The families are waiting and I regret that, in your answer, you did not mention a timetable. We understand that there are procedures, and that caution should be exercised; It's in the order of things. But we see that some countries are moving faster than we are. If you could share a calendar with us, it would reassure the thousands of families involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u28	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to put her question, No. 1493, concerning interns in territorial hospital centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u29	I would like to raise with you, Madam Deputy Minister, the issue of medical internships in territorial hospital centres. As you know, university hospital centres (CHUs) have developed logically in metropolises, often regional ones. This concentration of knowledge and transmission is logical in terms of the challenges, means and infrastructure needed to teach interns. In the third cycle, the internship gives concrete expression to the principle of learning through practice. Nevertheless, learning cannot be limited to metropolitan areas: 25 million French people live in rural areas or in urban areas of less than 20,000 inhabitants and the current post-covid situation could contribute to the rise of this figure. Our territorial organization drew the conclusions by organizing, as far as possible, hospital centres close to the territories. These centres offer internships to interns who, in some territories, are rarely provided. So, for two semesters – a year! –, no intern has conducted an internship in the specialized hospital Pierre Lôo de La Charité-sur-Loire, in the Nièvre. This lack of interns is unfortunately regular in territories such as the Nièvre, and must also meet in other territories. It has two consequences: on the one hand, a lack of arms, because it must be recognized that the interns allow the hospital to cope with its activity. This is often the double penalty for our territories, which are already affected by medical desertification. On the other hand, the training of interns could be considered incomplete as they do not see all the types of institutions where they will be able to operate. In addition, it is to be hoped that by doing part of their boarding school in our territories, young doctors will discover practices and places that please them and consider establishing themselves there. This possibility of discovery and installation in our territories is a chance we must not be deprived of. It also seems to me that the question of the geographical mobility of interns deserves to be asked. "External" internships should be facilitated, especially in neighbouring departments such as Nièvre: while the department is at the crossroads of the western and Rhône-Alpes inter-regions, young people cannot come interns. It is therefore necessary to reflect on the need to match two needs which must be supplemented: on the one hand, the training needs of interns, who must be able to discover different practices and different places of practice; On the other hand, the needs of the population, who must be able to be cared for – in which, I repeat, the interns play a major role. Madam Minister Delegate, how can we envisage, in practice, internship prescribers, hospitables and interns, an optimal fit allowing each of the stakeholders to find their own account? The aim is to provide the training courses offered in rural areas while making the practical training of interns as complete as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u30	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u31	I thank you for your question and for your observations, which I share, with regard to the more rural territories. You draw my attention to some difficulties related to intern medical internships. In this regard, our policy is clear: we want to diversify as much as possible these internship grounds in order to offer each student the opportunity to discover all the modes of exercise involved in the provision of care, as well as the diversity of existing structures, whether they are hospital centres – university or not – or outpatient practice in city medicine. However, this diversification can only be achieved if the quality of the training and the presence of a suitable framework are preserved. The opening of internships in hospital centres and not only in university hospitals has proved particularly interesting in recent months for the training of interns. The reform of the third cycle of medical studies, implemented since 2017, has strengthened the capacity of actors to develop these internship offers. The SRA ensures the proper organization of care in the territory, and the proportion of interns conducting internships in health facilities other than the CHU has been steadily increasing since 2017. In November 2020, 40% of interns who entered the boarding school in 2019 had completed an internship outside CHU, compared to only 25% of interns at the same stage of their studies before 2017. The Ma santé 2022 plan and the work carried out as a result of Ségur contribute to this desirable diversification of internship sites, including outpatients. In particular, they plan to develop the university master's degree for accredited practitioners who can take part in out-patient courses and in all specialties. This allows, beyond general medicine alone, to train students in other modes of exercise, especially outside metropolitan and urban areas. With regard to the geographical mobility of interns, the possibility of developing inter-regional internships, especially in the neighbouring departments you mention, outside subdivision and outside regions, is already allowed and allows to respond to specific situations, in the same way as those you describe. While this possibility is open, the Government does not wish to encourage students to leave their original subdivisions massively in order to avoid accentuating situations on territories already in tension. In order to ensure the best possible response, since 2019, the Ministry has been conducting a study to reduce territorial inequalities in access to care, by defining a policy to reduce the rate of mismatches between open positions and positions filled with national classification (NCT) tests. The aim of this study is to promote deficit specialities and the least endowed subdivisions. Thus, the rate of inadequacy found after the choice of students was reduced by more than half, from 4.2% in 2018 to 1.8% in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u32	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1518, concerning the number of general practitioners in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u33	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the shortage of general practitioners in the Sarthe department. According to data from the National Council of the Order of Physicians (CNOM), the number of general practitioners in Sarthe fell between 2010 and 2020 by 16.9%. According to the latest figures posted on the board's website, this decrease was 1.7% from 2019 to 2020. According to CNOM data, the ratio of active retired physicians to all active and non-active retired physicians has increased in our department from 3% to 22% between 2010 and 2020. This situation obviously has negative effects. Many patients no longer have a referral physician and do not have access to regular medical follow-up. The vaccination campaign highlighted this situation. Elderly people have had difficulty accessing the offer of vaccination, with no doctors to make appointments with. Many young people also do not have one, which can increase the share of care for them, since they cannot consult a specialist without a general practitioner and thus enrol in a care path. Several mechanisms implemented by the State or local authorities exist, the effects of which remain below the needs and demand of patients. Additional proposals exist. Among them, one would aim to extend the benefit of partial exemption from pension contributions for doctors taking up an activity in deficit areas, which currently applies only in mountain areas, to other areas where medical supply is insufficient. The other proposal would be to offer general medicine interns – who specialize in general medicine in three years – to opt, on a voluntary basis, for a fourth more professional year and allow them to be paid as city doctors. In this case, the aim would be to encourage the installation of young doctors, taking into account their desire to deepen the conditions of their installation in the city. Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to know what strong steps could be taken to ensure the transition between the current period, when the number of settled general practitioners is decreasing and the needs of an ageing population with chronic conditions are increasing, and the period to come, when doctors will be able to benefit from renewed training in the context of a numberrus apertus – a training that will only be completed in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u34	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u35	You are right to point out that the demographic challenge facing our country is great: the number of general practitioners has been decreasing steadily since 2010, and this decline is likely to continue until 2025. As you said, we have removed the numerus clausus and the training of caregivers takes place over many years. However, as early as 2017, we have taken steps to propose solutions that are adaptable to each local context, as we are convinced that the response to these challenges is not unique. Other measures, which we have begun to implement, take a little time to produce their effects – in particular the deployment of internships, which we have just mentioned with Mrs Goulet. It is because the expected effects of certain measures will not be felt in the short term that we have taken other steps, the effects of which are expected to reinvigorate this sector in the shorter term. The creation of 4000 positions of medical assistants to support and support doctors, as well as the deployment of 400 general practitioners in shared priority territories – in the city, in the hospital or as a paid physician – are very immediate responses to difficult situations. I will give you some concrete examples of the declination of this policy in your department of Sarthe, which show that the solution is obviously not unique. To date, 19 multi-professional health centres, nine primary care teams and two territorial health professional communities (TCHCs) are operating in this department, thanks to the combined efforts of the RSA and its partners. Of the 337 active general practitioners, 155 are interns and receive 42 interns in training. Two Sarthois doctors signed a contract at the very beginning of the exercise that we launched in January, and two more have taken steps in this direction with a view to their next installation. This contract simplifies the range of installation aids proposed. Today we see the beginnings of these measures, which are the result of broad consultation and draw their attractiveness from their alignment with the expectations not only of a territory, but also of the students and young doctors, to whom these new methods of exercise are proposed. Let us therefore continue to unite our efforts: it is by persevering that we will succeed in improving the situation of the most tense territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u36	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u37	Thank you for your answer, Madam Minister Delegate, but I would like to remind you that in the Sarthe department there are still 80000 people who do not have access to a doctor, and that the health homes that exist today are not enough for this number to decrease. I therefore propose that the two mechanisms already provided for by law be implemented in rural areas where this is justified for the benefit of medically-deficit mountain areas. I hope that you and your services will be able to study the case of these departments, such as the Sarthe, which, if they are not mountain territories, are nevertheless in deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u38	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor to put his question, No. 1516, concerning the closure of a class in Haute-Garonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u39	My question is to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport. A few weeks ago, students and their parents, teachers and elected representatives of the Inter-Communal Educational Group (RPI) of the villages of Faget, Vendine, Francarville and Loubens-Lauragais, in Haute-Garonne, learned from the National Education Inspector that a class had been closed. This announcement came brutally, since the inspector had, two months earlier, certified to the elected representatives the maintenance of all classes of this RPI. Alerté, I questioned Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer, because this closure was contrary to the commitment he had made, and a week ago, as by enchantment, we learned that the class was finally maintained. This class is therefore saved for the next school year, which is normal in view of the local situation. But what happens next year and year? Are you going to threaten to close this class again? From now on, in the Lauragais, forty minutes southeast of Toulouse, we understand that you close classes where it doesn't grumble too much rather than where the expense is not justified. You may hope that, by war weary, parents of students, teachers and local elected officials will end up not having the energy to move heaven and earth to preserve the few public services in their territory. As you can see, it is not on the bottom that I ask you – after all, the closure of certain classes can be justified – but on this strange method which may suggest that you want to take an opponent by surprise, grab him at the throat when you feel weakened, with only time to impose budget cuts, reserving this method to places where you think it will be effective, where people no longer have the energy to resist the brutality of the central administration. As the Government glorifies throughout the day the rurality, the cohesion of the territories and the first trenches, I wanted to tell you the reality of the ground, Madam Secretary of State, this technocratic brutality perceived by our fellow citizens, the one that confuses schoolchildren with statistics and budget tables, the one that downgrades everything from Paris without making the effort to engage in dialogue. In a period marked by the legitimate search for a new balance between the management of public employment and the accessibility of services in rural areas, the agreement is proposed as a possible solution allowing the reorganisation of school networks and the improvement of the supply, in particular thanks to the rural conventions which, as you know, depend largely on the accession of the actors to enable significant progress. I want to stress that there is good will on both sides in Haute-Garonne, in particular that of dialogue in rectorates and academic inspections. Do you think that by turning the academic director of the National Education Services into a cold HRD of a company that he has the mission to liquidate, you will allow this lost trust, which is so necessary for the dialogue and quality of our public services in rural areas, to be regained?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u40	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u41	Mr President, first of all I want to tell you that I am familiar with the reality of the terrain, since I go there at least twice a week, and I do not want to stop at the descent of the train, but rather to go as far as possible within the territories in particular rural areas. We attach particular importance to our rural schools, to our remote, sometimes landlocked territories, and the constant efforts of the Ministry of National Youth and Sports Education in this regard are in line with the wishes expressed by the President of the Republic. You also talked about a breakdown that would be based on spreadsheets and budget tables. We do take the figures into account, but not in the sense you assume. Even as we have seen for several years a decrease in the number of pupils linked to demographic change, we are strengthening the means, especially in the first degree, with a single objective: to establish the basic knowledge of the pupils. From the start of the school year, there will be exactly 1248 additional positions in the first degree. You stress the importance of rural life and we can only agree with you. You've probably heard about the new arrangements put in place: the ropes of success, the boarding schools of excellence, the rural educational territories. These are all levers that we are acting on because we know the quality and value of rural school and we want to further promote the success of our students, especially, as I said, those of the landlocked territories. With regard to the intercommunal pedagogical grouping that you are referring to, the question has indeed been asked of abolishing a post, but I confirm that we have decided not to close this class. Thus, in the coming year, the RPI, where the conditions of teaching, according to the returns we have, are very satisfactory, will continue to operate with its five classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u42	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u43	Madam Secretary of State, I know your commitment on the ground, but I wanted to draw the Government's attention to this breakdown in the local democracy of everyday life through the case of educational communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u44	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to raise her question, No. 1506, on the schooling of children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u45	Throughout these four years of the legislature, we have given priority to the transformation of the school, not by disseminating an umpteenth innovation in the field of learning but by putting at the heart of our policy the student and mastery of the fundamentals: the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1 in the areas of REP – priority education network – and REP + – reinforced priority education network – for the benefit of 300,000 pupils; lowering the compulsory educational age from 6 years to 3 years in order to combat inequalities of destiny from an early age; introduction of free breakfasts and 1 euro canteen so that every child can learn in the best conditions. These are concrete advances, which result in good results in the assessment of pupils' achievements. Our commitment is also from school for all, the inclusive school that integrates every child despite the difficulties he or she may encounter. This policy is bearing fruit as it has enabled nearly 20% more disabled children to attend school in ordinary settings since the 2017-2018 school year. However, in some departments, such as the Yvelines, which are still experiencing an increase in the population of their pupils, many children in need of accompaniment have not, since the beginning of the school year, had AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – even though they provide them with essential assistance in order to complete normal schooling and promote their autonomy. Institutions and representatives of the parents of pupils have told me of complicated situations: this lack of accompaniment results in learning difficulties for the pupils concerned, in primary school or at the college, difficulties which weigh on their transition to the higher level and which can have lasting consequences for the continuation of their schooling. While the education of all children must remain our goal, this policy is not without consequences on the number of AESHs we need to ensure the success of all students. For example, the Yvelines Departmental House of Disabled Persons (MDPH) reports that there are an average of 15% additional notifications each year. So these are dozens of additional AESH positions that we would need in our department to meet the needs of future students. I know that significant efforts have already been made since the beginning of the quinquennium and that they will continue, since the President of the Republic has committed himself to the recruitment of 11500 AESH by 2022 throughout France. We have led to an improvement in the conditions of employment of the AESH, an improvement in the quality and security of the profession, as well as to the reception and listening of the families better able to guarantee them adequate care for their children. So much has been done, but we must continue these efforts to allow all children to go to the school of the Republic. Madam Secretary of State, I wanted to warn you about the situation in the Yvelines and the consequences it has for the children. What prospects do you envisage at the beginning of the 2021 school year to realize our ambition and allow all students to go to school?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u46	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u47	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which allows us to recall that the fully inclusive school of the Republic is a strong ambition of our government, which has made disability a priority of the quinquennium. In 2021, with a budget of €3.3 billion, we are once again planning a very significant reinforcement of the resources for an ever more inclusive school: €2 billion will be spent on the remuneration, training and travel costs of the AESH. With 4000 new jobs created at the start of the 2021 school year, the total number of AESHs recruited and trained since 2018 to meet the needs of students with disabilities will rise to 130,000, an increase of more than 35% in positions. In your Yvelines department, the number of students receiving support, which increased sharply during the last school year, is 6505. I really want to reassure you, Member: the resources that will be deployed in your department at the next school year are still rising sharply, so that each student is accompanied and, of course, no one stays on the side of the road. We will rely on the localised inclusive support hubs (PIALs), whose objective is obviously to intervene as soon as possible, from the notification stage, in order to drastically reduce waiting times. In addition, I would like to point out that in your department, no students have been dropped out of school due to the interruption of their accompaniment. All the situations reported in October found an answer. Finally, in the context of accompanying the family's approaches, the telephone reception platforms help applicants and facilitate the implementation of the PIALs throughout the Yvelines department. In addition, the deployment of a new information system in the coming year will allow for faster consideration of needs and more optimal deployment of the necessary accompanying solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u48	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these answers and figures. It is very important for parents to have information. We must live up to the promise of the President of the Republic. The schooling of these children is still sometimes part of the combatant's journey, and the more we simplify the process, the more parents will want to enrol their children in a traditional school path. It is important to be able to reassure them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u50	Mr Hervé Berville, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1507, concerning the accompaniment of pupils with disabilities in the Côtes-d'Armor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u51	As you know, Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, the construction of a fully inclusive school is a top priority, a priority that we collectively support, so that all students can have access to quality education, taking into account their uniqueness and their specific needs. Together with parents, principals and teachers who do outstanding work on a daily basis, the accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) play a fundamental role in achieving this ambition, a role that we must recognize to its full value. This is what we have been doing since the beginning of this quinquennium with the improvement of their status, working conditions, training, which must be compared with an increase in their number. As such, we can only welcome the recruitment announced for the new year 2020 of more than 8,000 AESHs. This increase is essential and is translated into concrete action on the ground. Here I would like to commend the commitment of all the departments of your department, your action and that of Minister Blanquer, in view of what has been achieved. In my department of Côtes-d'Armor, too many students with a notification of the departmental house of disabled persons (MDPH) still remain unaccompanied or insufficiently accompanied. I say "too many", because one child without a companion is already a case of too many. I fully understand the incomprehension, anger and even frustration experienced by parents and educational teams in these situations. This is the case in my constituency, for example, in Plouër-sur-Rance or in Taden. Once the notification has been received, sometimes months may pass before these students benefit from the support of these staff to enable them to develop in school. And this results in delays in learning and difficulties in the classrooms due to the great disarray of families. It is true that the national education services – and here I wanted to welcome the commitment of the academic director of the National Education Services (DASEN) of the Côtes-d'Armor – are fully mobilized to best give each student appropriate assistance and I was able to see this again recently at the school in Landebia where a solution was found for a little girl, for the greatest relief of her family, after too long months of waiting. It must be said and said again, there is still a lack of resources to ensure that recruitment is commensurate with the needs, and coordination with the CDMH remains perfect. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know what actions you intend to take to ensure that, at the next school year, in all the schools in Côtes-d'Armor and more broadly in France, each student with special needs can receive individual or mutualised assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u52	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u53	Mr President, of course we share this very ambitious project for an increasingly inclusive school. I have just replied to your colleague Marie Lebec about the global means that we have been constantly deploying since 2017, whether it is recruitment, training or remuneration. I know how important it is to grant a status to these AESHs, who work daily with our children with disabilities. In Côtes-d'Armor, the means mobilized allow to accompany more than 2,800 students with disabilities today. However, you are right to say, honourable Member, that a student with a disability without a solution is always too much. By the start of 2020, just over 2% of these students were waiting for help. This is problematic, I know, but it can be explained: first, there is the time to allow staff recruitment; As a result of the very complex health situation, some staff were granted special leave of absence because of their vulnerability. I would also like to stress the extent of the work currently being carried out in your department in order to respond to the situation of students with disabilities as closely as possible to their educational needs. The National Education, Youth and Sports Services have convened a working group with the CDMH and the Regional Health Agency (ARS) to ensure that accompanying notifications meet a dual objective. The first is to introduce more flexibility in the support of young people in order to guide them towards more autonomy. As such, we are changing the way we consider the accompanying hours: instead of assigning to each student a fixed quota, we are working to encourage an adaptation according to the evolution of their needs. The second objective is to ensure a more efficient allocation of the working time of the AESHs in order, again, to support a greater number of pupils while, of course, guaranteeing the quality of their support. As you can see, Mr President, in your department and throughout the country, we are fully mobilized to provide every student with a disability with the support he is entitled to and to open a path to success.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u54	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u55	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. Having once again praised the work of the national education services, let me recall three things. First, the message of inclusive school has been heard by families, which has led to an increase in demands faster than we might expect: we need to be able to respond to them. Secondly, and you know better than I do, families don't ask for the moon: they just want their child to have access to the same opportunities as others. I stress this because in rural areas, the situation is sometimes a little more complicated because of the distance the AESHs have to travel to a particular school. Thirdly, I would like to stress one important point, the work with the CDMH. In all departments – and the Côtes-d'Armor department has embarked on this – it should be ensured that notifications can be quickly followed by support by the national education services, as delays in implementation create frustrations and misunderstandings among parents. Let's give all our little students the same chance in all territories, regardless of their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u56	Mr Bastien Lachaud, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1496, concerning the arrangements in Seine-Saint-Denis for the Olympic Games of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u57	"Useful and responsible games that will fully benefit the Seine-Saint-Denis": these are the words that the organizing committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024 tirelessly repeats. From promises to reality, however, there is a world. The leaders only have the legacy of the Games in their mouths, but first and foremost, the inhabitants of my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, which will welcome 80% of the equipment of these games, have only experienced authoritarian decisions, the concreteization of natural spaces and too few permanent jobs. The Games would be a "participatory project open to all, in all territories", we are sworn to the heart, but many collectives denounce on the contrary the opacity and lack of democratic consultation with the residents. And when citizens mobilize to make their voices heard, SOLIDEO, the delivery company for Olympic works, has for any answer to tax them as "eco-jihadists" or to conclude a contract with a consulting firm that carries out a listing of opponents, as has been the case in my constituency, in Aubervilliers. And I am not even talking about racist and sexist remarks and contempt for the inhabitants who would be commonplace within SOLIDEO as the press has revealed. One example: "What are we going to help black people in Seine-Saint-Denis? " Is this openness and participation? The Games would be the first event of this magnitude to be eco-responsible, we are assured. We can doubt this, when several projects are synonymous with destruction of precious natural spaces, concreteisation, pollution. Eco-responsible games, when the motorway interchange planned in Saint-Denis Pleyel threatens to energize a school group of 700 students, in a popular area already heavily polluted and invaded by cars? Eco-responsibles, when the area of Les Vents near the departmental park Georges Valbon, the green lung of the department that houses several protected species, must be concreted after having been sold at a vile price by the eco-socialist majority of the departmental council? Eco-responsibles, when the Vertus workers' gardens in Aubervilliers, almost a hundred years old, must be partially razed as part of the construction of the future Olympic training pool and the commercial equipment that accompanies it? Is that what you mean by eco-responsibility? The Games would be a great economic opportunity for the poorest department in metropolitan France, where 18% of the inhabitants live on less than 885 euros a month, it is promised. As if the smoking theory of runoff should apply here too! 150,000 potential jobs are announced. But only 25% of the construction site markets must be open to the TPE-SME of Seine-Saint-Denis and 10% of the working hours must be reserved for residents far from employment – to date, only 9% of this target would have been achieved, that is, just 400 jobs! Of course, there is still safety, restoration, cleaning and reception, the organizers say. But how many permanent and skilled jobs does it represent? These are rather difficult and precarious jobs, of a duration limited to fifteen days! The project is accompanied by a meagre sprinkle of social housing, at light years of need, even as the price of the square metre will explode! Is this the economic legacy of the Games for the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis? What do you intend to do to put an end to this comedy, to finally answer questions and concerns, to ensure that promises are kept and to ensure that the Olympic Games will not be a dupe market for the Seine-Saint-Denis and its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u58	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u59	I apologize for the absence of my colleague Roxana Maracinanu, who asked me to answer you. You are developing an almost caricatural approach to the organisation of the Games and the work carried out by SOLIDEO, which absolutely does not reflect the reality of the facts. As in each public institution, the governance of SOLIDEO is, quite classically, the responsibility of a board of directors that engages its broad orientations through votes, in a democratic and transparent manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u60	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u61	In addition, this institution has for a long time engaged in various activities of consultation with the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis for the realization of the Olympic and Paralympic works. [[Mr. Bastien Lachaud exclaimed]] You also mentioned unacceptable comments – we all agree on this point – made by an employee of SOLIDEO. These remarks cannot, of course, involve the public institution, the management of which had immediately and firmly distinguished itself. I would point out that the author has since resigned. With regard to the eco-responsibility of projects, SOLIDEO pursues a high ambition in terms of environmental exemplaryness and reports regularly on this at its board of directors, under the watchful supervision of the State and local and regional authorities, in particular the city of Paris. Regarding the economic and social impact of Olympic investments in Seine-Saint-Denis, I invite you to look at the breakdown of these investments: you will see that almost 87% of them benefit from the Seine-Saint-Denis. With regard to the jobs generated by the 2024 Games, it is important to point out that the challenge is to enable the 150,000 people employed and the 5000 volunteers mobilised to strengthen their employability. Finally, with regard to the Social Charter for Employment and Territorial Development of SOLIDEO, EUR 148 million of contracts have been awarded to 600 TPEs and SMEs, as well as to 30 social and solidarity economy (ESS) structures throughout France, more than half of which are located in the five departments concerned by the construction projects, representing 20% of the total turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u62	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 1499, on the development of RD 268.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u63	The large port of Marseille-Fos is the first seaport in France and the fourth in Europe. It represents a major asset of regional and national economic activity, as well as a key player in international industrial trade, in particular with regard to the western basins, whose specific geographical location makes it the only port of the Mediterranean which is accessible by such diversified modes of transport: sea, river, iron and road. Despite this advantageous situation, the accessibility of the western basins and their terrestrial infrastructure is not up to the level of activity, which is a barrier and a nuisance for the population. Is there indeed many ports of this size that are served by a single roadway, in this case the departmental road 268, which supports high traffic, of which 30% are heavy goods vehicles? For many years, people, elected officials and professionals have been asking for the two-tracking of this departmental road, in order to secure traffic to the city of Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône that deserves to be better served – I would like to ask you about the state's action on this issue. Are there also many ports of this size that are served by a single railway? This is a priority development, given the challenges of air pollution and global warming: rail traffic in the Gulf of Fos, far too low, accounts for 10% of national traffic and has seventy agents, five times less than 20 years ago. Access to the port by the railway should therefore be increased. On 6 May, I took part in a round table – long requested by railwaymen – on the future of the Miramas Yard, during which the SNCF and the State committed themselves to major investments to renovate this station: this is good news, subject to guaranteeing the high scenario. However, if the associated network is not adapted accordingly, the effects will remain insufficient. In order to ensure a better connection between the port and the logistics and to consider an increased postponement of the road to the railway, improvements are necessary on and towards the port: the realization of additional voices on the docks and the development of a complementary track from Vigueirat, which could also be used for the transport of passengers. Many stakeholders are interested in this solution, the cost of which is estimated at EUR 5 million. Let's put a big accelerator on freight, which is a health, safety and planning issue! This unique territory is close to cities, industries and protected natural spaces while welcoming the first port of France: the development must be up to date. The recovery plan must fully integrate the ecological transition of the western basins of the large seaport and take environmental, transport and mobility issues together. Is the Government ready to move in this direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u64	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u65	You are asking me about the development of the connecting routes and more generally about the improvement of the service of the port of Marseille-Fos, which is indeed an obvious issue for the territory. With regard to road services, first of all, the project of liaison between Fos-sur-Mer and Salon-de-Provence will make a major contribution to improving the northern reach of the territory: a decisive phase has been reached in recent months with the organization of a public debate which has taken place until the beginning of the year and the decision of the Government on this point will be taken very soon. The project of deviation of the RN568 from the law of Martigues and Port-de-Bouc will allow us to improve the service is, with detailed design studies, the acquisitions of land and procedures prior to the initiation of the work that is ongoing. The work could start from 2023, subject to the inclusion of all the necessary amounts in the next infrastructure contract. Moreover, the large maritime port of Marseille (GPMM) wishes to massively carry the modal report and develop rail and river services. This is why it plans to adapt its railway infrastructure, by reinvigorating the river strategy, to consolidate its hinterland. The GMPM has invested more than 140 million euros between 2009 and 2013, of which 77 million to boost rail service and modal reporting has increased from 8% to 12% over the last four years. Finally, the project to refurbish the railway service of the Graveleau hub, which was intended to promote new services with a view to the development of the modal report, was also supported by the France Recovery Plan, amounting to €3.8 million. Of course, we share the concern about the environmental impact and the fight against air pollution: the GPMM is a precursor in France and has thus developed technologies of connection to dock with, again, an envelope from France relaunch of an amount of 10 million euros for the continuation of electrification of the docks, which will allow to multiply by six the power of electrical connections available. Finally, France launched in 2016 the project of low-emission areas of sulphur and particulate matter – ECA areas – covering the entire Mediterranean. Having convinced all Mediterranean States to accept this ambitious project, it will ask the International Maritime Organization for the official designation of the zone in 2022 – which makes it possible to envisage an entry into force between 2024 and 2025. You can be assured of that, Mr President, so we are fully mobilized to find solutions and to guarantee the necessary funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u66	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to put her question, No. 1517, concerning the restoration of the blue Palombe night train.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u67	My question, which is addressed to the minister responsible for transport, concerns the restoration of the intercity Paris-Hendaye night train – known as the Blue Palombe – announced in December 2021, while questions remain as to its route in particular. Indeed, the Government's report submitted to Parliament in May 2021 advocates a route along the Atlantic axis via Bordeaux, with several scenarios according to the seasons defined according to the main determinants of a night train, in order to meet the expectations of a growing population that wants alternatives to air transport for long distances. In response to a letter from the parliamentarians of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the Landes and the Hautes-Pyrénées, the minister responsible for transport states that the Paris-Tarbes route via Toulouse was chosen for the revival of the line in 2022. However, by choosing to re-establish this route passing through Orléans, Limoges and Toulouse, the journey time is extended to make the offer perfectly retributory for passengers to Hendaye or wishing to travel to Spain. Deprived of these travellers, this line will lose its attractiveness, as was the case when this route was tested from 2011 to 2017, resulting in a 25% drop in traffic. My first question is therefore simple: why has the Government not chosen the route along the Atlantic axis, which has made the Blue Palombe successful for years? In addition, in his letter, the Minister Delegate indicated that he wished to continue the line to Lourdes and Hendaye as soon as possible in the high season. Lourdes is not just a summer destination, the pilgrimages run from March to October. This line is indispensable for the revival of the city of Lourdes, hard hit by the crisis of covid-19. I had already expressed this during the visit of the deputy minister Jean-Baptiste Djebari to our department: it is not acceptable that the service of Lourdes, whatever the route chosen, is not insured as soon as the line is put back into service. Could you also provide us with details of the frequency of the offer, the pricing policy, the rolling stock used or the services offered? This night train has not only a tourist vocation: it also contributes to the opening up of the territories of the Pyrenean Piedmont and the mountain and to the mobility of the populations concerned, especially the young. Finally, you wanted the transmission of the study to Parliament to be an opportunity for a broad debate on how to reinvigorate and reenchant these trains. Beyond a parliamentary debate, does the Government intend to engage in a genuine local consultation, in order to define a suitable, stable and innovative offer, capable of making the reopening of the Blue Palombe a success?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u68	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u69	You are questioning the minister responsible for transport on the restoration of the blue Palombe night train, an important issue which is causing a very strong mobilization of elected officials. It is also the former rapporteur of the mobility guidance law (LOM) who responds to you and who had indeed been at the initiative of the requested report on the return to service of night trains – I am, in my personal capacity, very supportive and even very attached to it. The restoration of these trains, desired by the majority, will take place in three stages, creating new connections or reopening lines that have been closed: this is the case of the Blue Palombe. The first of these three stages consists of the continuation of the two current lines, Paris-Cerbère and Paris-Briançon: seventy-one cars have been renovated for this purpose, at a cost of 44 million euros entirely borne by the State. They will be delivered between 2021 and 2023. The second stage consists of reopening two links, on the one hand between Paris and Nice – the Prime Minister inaugurated it at the end of May – and on the other hand between Paris and Tarbes – it will be opened by the end of 2021, with an extension until Hendaye in the high season. As part of France's relaunch, €100 million of funding will help to renovate the necessary cars and equipment at the railway station. The third step is to open new lines by 2030. A report submitted to Parliament at the end of May sheds light on the scope of the possibilities, identifies the possible achievements and engages in discussions with operators and elected representatives – this must, of course, be carried out in consultation. With regard more specifically to the service of the Hautes-Pyrénées and the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, a connection via Toulouse is planned in the first phase, unfortunately the number of cars available being insufficient to reopen in the short term a route via Bordeaux. The report, however, sets out the medium-term interest in the return of the Atlantic axis and the transit through Bordeaux. The methods of operation of the lines mentioned in the report submitted to Parliament are only proposals from the Government – I refer you to the mobility guidance law. They will be debated with Parliament and the elected representatives and then subjected to in-depth studies aimed at defining their parameters and integrating the points of vigilance that you have mentioned. The report recalls that the use of certain lines, such as the Blue Palombe, is subject to a high seasonality: maintaining a fine service would result in a heavy deficit. Rather, a service differentiated between high and low season is recommended to adapt to the level of attendance observed. Be assured, Madam Member, that these arrangements may evolve after the first phase of reopening has been re-established. The debate therefore remains open.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u70	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1502, on safety campaigns in the field of water sports.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u71	First of all, I would like to thank you, the Minister of the Sea, for your last visit to the Var, which was extremely fruitful and has made it possible to move forward on the many issues we have discussed. Among the many dangers that threaten the Mediterranean Sea are degassing at sea – we have again experienced it recently. As the summer season is coming, I would like to draw your attention to the safety campaigns for water sports and to the means available to the authorities responsible for the tranquillity and safety of the public and users. Every summer, we deplore high-risk practices on our shores, against which the current means of struggle are inadequate: I am thinking for example of the practice of water sports, including on light boats, under the influence of alcohol or narcotics; Noise nuisances, including night noise from boaters stationed in berthing areas and light equipment (ZMEL); or to the exhibition of copies of large calibre weapons, certainly fake, on the deck of a boat at anchor – this last example is neither a case of school, nor an extract of adventure film, but a true case reported at this beginning of the summer season by the environmental police of Port-Cros, one of our most beautiful Golden Islands, in the Var; I greet Mrs Audibert, Member of Parliament for this constituency. At the 2019 Interdepartmental Committee on the Sea, the Prime Minister proposed a harmonization of legislative and regulatory arrangements, with the aim of suppressing the conduct and participation in driving at the territorial sea under the influence of alcohol or narcotics, for all pleasure and professional vessels. In July 2020, the Minister of the Interior detailed measures to carry out blood alcohol controls and to combat the use of narcotics, in order to apply to boaters engaged in maritime navigation in the territorial sea, on board a ship or pleasure craft flying the French or foreign flag, the provisions of the Codes of the Road and of public health: punishment for driving after the use of substances or plants classified as narcotics, the possibility for screening officers to proceed with the diversion or even the immobilization of the ship. The current legal framework provides for and punishes these cases, but what about prevention campaigns? Every year there are accidents at sea, which can lead to severe handicaps or even deaths, involving motorized water vehicles without a licence, such as motorcycles or water jets. How can we protect swimmers? I associate myself with this question Claire Pitollat, Member of Parliament for Bouches-du-Rhône. Is there any reflection on awareness-raising between the parties, in particular the law enforcement agencies – the navigational gendarmerie in particular – to adapt the legal control mechanisms to these new practices? Is the amount of the fine reprehensible? Are the means sufficient to requisition the motor vehicles in question and place them at the impoundment? Would it not be appropriate for sworn guards, particularly in national parks, to be able to draw up minutes in the EMLZs for the above offences – night noise, drunkenness, the use of narcotics...? How many checks and minutes have been carried out, and what strategy do you intend to implement to advance the situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u72	The Minister for the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u73	You're asking me about the troubles of public order at sea and the impoundment of the sea – the time is right, as the summer season opens and the good weather prompts our fellow citizens to go to the sea, after the crisis of the Covid-19 which has affected us for many months. They want access to the sea, this area of freedom, but sometimes suffer unacceptable behaviour. With regard to disturbances of public order at sea, the situation is perfect – I grant it to you. However, in 2020, the Mediterranean Maritime Prefecture carried out enhanced security operations: 10168 checks were carried out, giving rise to 2093 verbalizations. This year, our goal is to further strengthen these operations, doubling the number of dedicated actions. Beyond repression, we must take a preventive approach: I wanted it to start earlier than usual, starting in May, that it should be strengthened and adapted to the particularities of each coastal facade – you know them as far as the Mediterranean is concerned. New uses are observed at sea and access to the sea is much more open than in the past; We must also strengthen our presence there. I take this opportunity to thank all those who act at sea: operational regional centres for surveillance and rescue (CROSS), Directorate of Maritime Affairs, National Society for Rescue at Sea (SNSM), maritime gendarmes, police officers of Republican security companies (CRS), police forces, customs, national navy... They're all on deck, and they'll still be on deck this summer. In the summer of 2020, for example, CROSS conducted more than 13500 operations, and 24,200 lives were saved. We have already discussed together the question of the maritime impoundment and the difficulty it raises, particularly in the Mediterranean: while on land, the owner of a car seized will recover it from the impoundment, because he needs it, at sea, it is not usually the owners who get caught and are verbalized. In addition, we are not equipped to place the goods at the impound. We are therefore in danger of being overwhelmed quickly. I suggest that we work together with Ms.Pitollat and the Garnished and Confiscated Asset Management and Recovery Agency (AGRASC) to develop a response – it is absolutely necessary to find a solution. We will have to solve this problem permanently by next summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u74	Mrs Edith Audibert has the floor to raise her question, No. 1509, concerning the carriage of passengers by sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u75	At the end of 2020, the pleasure commission decided to relax the regulation of short-distance port activities to which coastal vessels (NACs) are subject in terms of trade. The latter were allowed to carry passengers, up to a maximum of twelve persons, which immediately led to an air call and caused a significant competitive imbalance, which affected the shipowners of passenger ships. Taking advantage of this opening, many NACs modify their original purpose to perform mainly passenger transport – this is not acceptable, especially since insurance companies refuse to insure them for this new activity. The opening of the regulations had other anti-competitive consequences: while a ship's master was trained for six months and had to justify at least twelve months of navigation, a NAC pilot obtained a navigation certificate in just three weeks. Similarly, while passenger ships are subject to standards and obligations that limit their load capacity and regulate their navigation, NACs largely escape control and take liberties with regulation. Finally, while maritime passenger transport professionals are subject to port taxes and various charges, NACs can opt for the self-enterprise regime, thus avoiding the tax obligations borne by traders. Nor is the proliferation of these vessels without consequences for the particularly fragile marine coastal environment. As a Member of Parliament for the third constituency of the Var, I am particularly concerned about the very high human pressure caused by the transport of passengers to the islands off the coast of Hyères. Port Cros National Park is particularly concerned about the additional anthropogenic pressure caused by the transportation of NAC passengers. In the face of this diversification of activities, shipping companies adopt more aggressive business practices, and small structures are likely to be destabilized by competition from recreational vessels. What urgent measures do you intend to take, Madam Minister, to avoid the drift of the situation and to return to the original spirit of the reform, that of the servitude of the marinas or the anchorage areas, excluding any possibility of passenger transport by the NACs?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u76	The Minister for the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u77	We did indeed review the NAC regulations in order to frame an activity that already existed but was not governed by any clear legal framework. Decisions were needed to remedy this lack of a framework, which prevented controls from being carried out – Ms Mauborgne mentioned it. As a minister, my first priority is safety at sea. This development also creates jobs, especially for young people, who I am convinced need to rediscover maritime activities. So far, the conduct of the NACs required only patents accessible through short training, but this activity can offer young people an initial approach to the sea trades and encourage them to take a more comprehensive training of sailors. You denounce the competitive imbalance that the new framework would create for passenger shipowners. Note, however, that the NACs are limited to very coastal navigation, less than 6 nautical miles – 9 kilometres – from their point of departure, and less than 2 miles – 3 kilometres – from a shelter, while conventional ships can move away hundreds of kilometres. A NAC can carry up to 12 people, while transportation vessels can accommodate 100 to 200 times more passengers. I can understand your concern – you must always hear the concerns of the territories – but I think we have made a good decision: let's see what its implementation will do. You worry – it's normal and legitimate – and you relay the concerns of actors on the ground; However, as this provision is not yet in force, it is not shown that it will lead to any unfair competition. The texts are not yet published: I will communicate them to you as soon as they appear, and we will take stock of them at the end of the tourist season. It must be humble to say that if a tool does not meet the needs or practices of the field, it will have to be changed. We'll be vigilant, both of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u78	Mrs Edith Audibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u79	Let me just stress the need to ensure land and sea traffic in order to preserve the national heritage of our islands while at the same time benefiting the people. We are trying, on the one hand, in the new public service delegations which concern in particular the islands of Hyères, to regulate the load capacity; It is not for the other to increase traffic on our islands. Porquerolles has 300 inhabitants per year; In season, this number is multiplied by four and the island hosts up to 20,000 visitors per day. This creates a lot of complications, you have to understand. In particular, Port Cros National Park is very concerned about load capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u80	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to put his question, No. 1513, on the situation of adult polydisabled persons in Ain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u81	Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of adults with disabilities and their families in the department of Ain, and particularly in the Bourg-en-Bresse sector. It is known that the care of a person with a disability requires permanent support and mobilizes very important resources both medically and for daily life. In my department, this care, already insufficient for polydisabled children, is now almost non-existent for polydisabled adults. It is in this context that a group of parents, Collectif parents polyhandicap 01, has been working for several years on a day-to-day medical care project for adults with disabilities. This work is carried out in close collaboration with various partners including the regional health agency – ARS – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, the departmental council of Ain and APF France handicap. A study, carried out by an independent firm, has largely confirmed the lack of medical facilities allowing day-to-day reception. It should also be pointed out that the project under development seeks to control costs as much as possible, since it remains, with 12 places, at a human size, and seeks to pool services and skills. While a meeting of all the partners gave hope for a determined and rapid progress on this issue a few months ago, it must be noted that he is now at a standstill, which causes discouragement or even anger on the part of the parents. While they are exhausted by the very heavy and complicated accompaniment of their children, they have the impression that the project is abandoned. Also, I ask you what is planned to maintain this project, in order to best accompany adults with disabilities to their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u82	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u83	An institute of motor education – IEM – Handas, supported by APF France handicap, is located in the municipality of Viriat near Bourg-en-Bresse. It provides semi-boarding for children and adolescents with polydisabled disabilities. As you pointed out, the management of polyhandicap poses two major problems. The proportion of older polydisabled young people, covered by the Creton amendments, is increasing steadily and continuously: they account for about 30% of the young people welcomed to the school to date. This necessarily leads to an increase in waiting times for the entrances of the younger ones, but also complicates the specific accompaniment of this older group. As you know, a very strong commitment is needed, with an important multidisciplinary team. There is also a need to deal with the question of family acceptance of this sudden shift from a children's to an adult's structure, with significant age differences in nursing homes – FAM – and in specialized foster homes – MAS. In the department of Ain, there are currently about 10 devices for adults with polydisabled disabilities, with a total offer of about 496 beds and places located close to the most important cities in the department. The work has been under way for several months around a project to create a transitional arrangement which would be similar to a day-time reception for polydisabled young people who have left the IEM in order to prepare them for entry into a specialized institution – for those over 18 years of age and unfortunately others already older, because of the Creton scheme – and in particular in specialized reception homes or in nursing homes. State and department act here hand in hand. In the present state of the medical and social supply of the department of Ain, the ARS cannot transform existing places already filled. We must therefore create new ones. However, be assured that this project is not abandoned. All the actors concerned are currently working on its implementation. We must not hide it: delays have been taken, in particular because of the health crisis, but the project is still under study and will be completed very soon. Details are expected on its installation, on compliance with the rules on authorisation of medical and social establishments, on the capacity to redeploy the resources of the porters of the operation, in particular the APF France Handicap, within the framework of its multi-annual contract of objectives and means. We ensure, and I will ensure, that this project can provide the necessary support for persons with disabilities: the support of the family, which is very important, the carers being very solicited and mobilized, the accompaniment in their usual surroundings of the child and the adolescent, the medical supervision, the care, the necessary equipment, the motor education or the necessary functional rehabilitations. Special education measures must be maintained in order to develop the personality and social autonomy of these young people with disabilities. The track currently retained is therefore to operate according to a support platform logic backed by an existing structure. I commend the actors, who have committed themselves to a process of pooling existing costs and resources. We must now continue the dialogue; rest assured that I will follow this question personally. In fact, I must soon receive the "polyhandicap" steering committee: we will report on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u84	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u85	We can understand that the SRA was fully mobilized by the urgency of the health crisis; But we must also understand the discouragement of parents. I hear your personal commitment. We will, of course, remain vigilant to see how your response will translate into concrete action, but it will allow us to prepare for the future in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u86	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 1498, on the aviation recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u87	Among the sectors most affected by the crisis, aeronautics and its 202000 employees benefit from a strong commitment from the State, amounting to EUR 15 billion. Despite repeated requests from several parliamentary groups, the Government did not impose a ban on the distribution of dividends to shareholders during this period. As a result, a group such as Safran, whose state is a shareholder and its board of directors, was able to achieve in 2020, at the height of the crisis, a net result of 850 million euros, of which 180 million were donated to its shareholders. That same year, however, this group received EUR 250 million in public money if only aid for the long-term partial activity is retained. There is a feeling of double punishment for these employees who, as taxpayers, finance their partial activity and also suffer loss of wages and employment, while some pay premiums. To take just the example of the site located near Le Havre, in Gonfreville-l'Orcher, which I know well, the company's workforce increased from 1720 jobs in 2019 to 1551 today. The shareholders, not content with the 5% margins obtained by Safran Nacelles in the midst of the crisis, announced the goal of a two-digit return as early as 2024, i.e. at the same level as the 2019 result, the benchmark year in terms of performance level. What does the Government intend to do to impose on companies that have benefited from public money that their workforces also return to their level in the same year? Moreover, contrary to other countries such as Germany, the Government has refused to make massive State aid conditional on the maintenance of employment and production sites in France. Yet one of the lessons of this crisis is the need – as has been said on several occasions by the ministers in this House – to reindustrialise, relocate to our country and to Europe. Concrete result: the Airbus A320neo's production programme, Safran Nacelles' flagship programme, distributed in a balanced way before the crisis between its production sites in England, France and Morocco, has been reoriented to dispense with the British site and its 110000 hours of work. You will tell me that England has left the European Union and that this is no longer our problem – except that these 110000 hours of work will be reassigned only to the tune of 20000 hours in France and 90000 hours in Morocco, a country where the labour force is at low cost, despite the opposition expressed by the European Works Council in Safran on 21 April and by the Central Social and Economic Committee. This situation places the Gonfreville-l'Orcher site in a quasi-monoproduction situation and thus exposes it to a risk in case of setbacks on this program. How does the Government intend to ensure that the recovery plan serves employment in France rather than shareholder margins and relocations abroad?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u88	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u89	You ask me about the situation and especially the future of the site of Safran Nacelles de Gonfreville-l'Orcher, which you know well. This site is the company's head office. As such, it is and will remain at the heart of the system. It is also from this site that Safran manages the after-sales support of the nacelles. As a Member of Parliament for Seine-Maritime, you know this well: Safran Nacelles is one of the main industrial sites in Normandy with 1500 employees present in Le Havre for more than thirty years. The company has chosen to invest heavily to modernize it. It has a unique know-how that has developed some of the most sophisticated nacelles in the world. Safran Nacelles had anticipated the cessation of A380 and A320neo production announced by Airbus. The drop in loads has been reinforced by the continuing economic crisis in the air sector, which has been hit hard. Safran Nacelles therefore had to adapt very quickly to preserve its competitiveness and maintain its skills. Safran Nacelles' industrial scheme is based on three sites: Le Havre, Burnley and Casablanca, whose critical size must be maintained. When it was necessary to make choices at the heart of the crisis, the group, as you said, decided to repatriate the technical activities from England to France. More recently, with regard to the A320neo, Safran Nacelles' major programme, the company decided to repatriate working hours to the Gonfreville-l'Orcher site. The will is therefore clearly to increase the burden of the Le Havre site. I would also like to remind you, in order not to evade part of your question, which I am very keen to answer, that Safran was one of the first French companies to sign a fairly comprehensive agreement on long-term partial activity with its employees, a mechanism established by the Government to enable the sectors most affected by the crisis to pass the course while retaining both skills and employment. You also recalled that Safran Nacelles was supported to the tune of EUR 15 million as part of the plan to relaunch the aviation sector. The Le Havre site is therefore not threatened; It is even rather strengthened and its activity should diversify, as the news I have just mentioned shows. As far as the conditions of aid are concerned, you know our position: the Government considered that making access to public aid subject to certain criteria, at the heart of the crisis, was not a good idea. We would have taken the risk that large companies like Safran would not use certain devices, starting with partial unemployment. This is a position we take; I'm not saying it will be permanent and eternal. I would also point out that the remuneration of the capital you have quoted on the dividends must be compared with the remuneration of the labour; I suggest that you look at the premiums, in particular the 5760 euros of participation premium. I think it is always healthy to compare the remuneration of capital and the remuneration of labour. Safran is not the last company in terms of sharing the value of the results it achieves.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u90	Mr Christophe Naegelen, speaking in explanation of question No. 1519, by Mr. Philippe Dunoyer, concerning the identification number of nationals of New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u91	I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Philippe Dunoyer about the assignment of a registration number to New Caledonians in the National Register of Identification of Natural Persons, the RNIPP. The decree of 22 January 1982 entrusts the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – INSEE – with the responsibility for the treatment necessary for the maintenance of the NIPP and provides for the inclusion in this directory of persons born in the territory of the French Republic. However, to date, the registration of Caledonians at birth is still not a reality. In the absence of a registration number in the RNIPP, students in metropolitan France, like any Caledonian who comes to reside there, for professional or health reasons, must apply for such registration under the procedure normally reserved for foreigners. This requires them to take long and complex steps to obtain social security as well as access to a grant or housing assistance scheme. This difference in treatment is even more damaging in times of health crisis. A transitional arrangement, involving the Caledonian services, including the House of New Caledonia, the National Old Age Insurance Fund and the INSEE services, has been in place since 2016 to speed up and facilitate the registration process for Caledonian students wishing to continue their studies in the hexagon. However, after several renewals of this system and the lack of a solution to implement the registration of Caledonians, INSEE has put an end to this derogatory process since the beginning of 2020. What solution does the Government propose to bring an early end to the unequal treatment of New Caledonian nationals, and especially of Caledonian students?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u92	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u93	Thank you for this question, which will allow me to give some clarification. The decree of 22 January 1982 provides for all persons born in the territory of the French Republic to be registered in the NIPP from the time of their birth. Over the past several years, INSEE has been working with the overseas communities to identify the vital statistics of persons born in these territories so that they can be registered in this directory. This work was completed in French Polynesia, as well as Wallis and Futuna. In other territories, they faced strong political opposition. This is the case in New Caledonia: despite an on-site mission of two INSEE executives, despite work with the Government of New Caledonia, there have been significant obstacles to the realization of the project. In particular, INSEE has never received the civil states of people born in New Caledonia. This blockage was also noted by the President of the Government in the summer of 2020 in a letter addressed to INSEE. In this context, the above-mentioned decree cannot be applied by INSEE. Caledonians who come to study in France are therefore registered in the national register when they request it. The deadlines that you have mentioned, Mr President, have considerably shortened in recent years. First, a dedicated health insurance site allows New Caledonian students to complete their application for registration before arriving in metropolitan territory. Upon registration on the site, a provisional Social Security number is automatically assigned to them, even if not all supporting documents are provided immediately. From that moment on, the student can download his or her provisional certificate of social security membership. As the transitional arrangements ended in 2019, this procedure was applied from 2020; INSEE had no knowledge of students in difficulty. Please be aware, however, that INSEE is mobilised and available to Members if further clarification is needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u94	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u95	Thank you for hearing Philippe Dunoyer's call for students and their families who are prisoners of the government's inability to put in place a technical solution requested by INSEE. On the eve of the third referendum on self-determination and as we are working to build an institutional future for New Caledonia within the Republic, Philippe Dunoyer attaches particular importance to the fact that the children of New Caledonia are no longer considered foreigners in their own country when they undertake registration procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u96	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to put her question, No. 1497, on the production of oxygen in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u97	The risk of a shortage of oxygen for medical use is felt in many countries, as the pandemic continues to plague. India is one of the most dramatic examples. If France is not faced with such a dramatic situation, I think it is important to hear the employees of the company Air liquide, a company of the Blanc-Mesnil, in my constituency. Liquid air, the main oxygen producer in France, is present in seventy-eight countries, with approximately 64,500 employees. This group of CAC40 posted a profit of 2.4 billion euros in 2020, compared to 2.2 billion the previous year and one can expect a result of the same order in 2021. This performance is of course due to the sharp increase in the demand for oxygen in hospital services in France and around the world. As I read in the economic press, "the health crisis didn't blow off liquid Air." The employees of Blanc-Mesnil wanted to warn me: there is no more liquid Air plant in France to build, I repeat, "cold boxes", i.e. columns of liquefaction of air gases. The Vitry-sur-Seine construction site was transferred to the United Arab Emirates; the study office which was mainly located in Champigny-sur-Marne is now in Poland. Strong investments are also being made in South Africa, Russia. I am not against the international development of such groups, but as oxygen needs are growing, how can the transfer of French production abroad be explained? What if liquid or gaseous oxygen is considered a public good that escapes stock market dogmas? I will go further: gas, air, water, energy, medicines and today hydrogen must be grouped into a public hub. My group has often defended this broad concept of public goods in this House. Madam Secretary of State, what initiatives do you intend to take to maintain and develop oxygen production in France and to give it the status of public good?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u98	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u99	Thank you for your question on an effectively strategic resource. We could reflect, in the spirit of what you are proposing in terms of public goods, on integrating the distribution of oxygen into the "strategic" sectors dear to Arnaud Montebourg and expanded by the Business Growth and Transformation Act (CAPTE). My team and I are fully at your disposal to work on it because your question is relevant: unfortunately, from India to Brazil, this atrocious crisis has shown how strategic oxygen is, almost public, in any case of first necessity. We inquired, and Bercy is not aware of any concerns about Liquid Air or the fact that a study or project would be underway to transfer oxygen production from France to abroad. Today, for technical reasons, due to the production and the very use of oxygen, the production is local, with zones of barges of 300 to 400 kilometers around the factories. Then, the liquid Air oxygen plants in France work very well: there is no plan to close or stop the sites, to our knowledge. Finally, the demand for the French market is much lower than the production capacity in France; There is no tension on the oxygen supply chain in France, neither in terms of production nor in terms of distribution or packaging. With regard to the site of Blanc-Mesnil, there is indeed a project of transfer of activity, not abroad but in Saint-Ouen-l'Aumône in Val-d'Oise, 35 kilometres from the site. This is the project to create a packaging and distribution plant "4.0", which will offer employees of the Blanc-Mesnil site their transfer to the Valdois site. The planned date for the opening of the new plant is the end of the year 2022, but this will not result in dismissal or forced departure among the 120 employees of Blanc-Mesnil. If a total reduction of 14 posts is planned for the project, this reduction will be achieved only through the transfer and retirement of staff until then. Already, eleven employees have taken steps to enforce their pension rights in the coming months or years. Moreover, the transfer of certain employees to other liquid Air sites or to other subsidiaries of the group is perfectly possible. In addition, six new posts are planned and these will be opened primarily to the employees concerned by the project. The group has assured us that we are committed to accompanying employees who could not be transferred to Saint-Ouen-l'Aumône in an internal mobility approach in the vicinity of their workplace. Accompanying measures for voluntary employees to join the future Saint-Ouen-l'Aumône site have been drawn up with representatives of the social and economic committee in an ad hoc committee. This project is innovative, with the creation of a new plant benefiting from the latest technological advances. It also benefits from the industry showcase of the future label awarded by the Industry Alliance of the Future. Madam Member, I assure you that we are following this issue with vigilance and are prepared to continue these exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u100	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize spoke about his question, No. 1494, concerning access to public finance for innovative companies and start-ups.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u101	My question is to the Minister responsible for industry and concerns the access of companies and start-ups to public financing. The France Recovery Plan is an unprecedented catalyst for transforming, digitising and greening the economy, but since its launch many companies and start-ups continue to face difficulties in accessing public funding. These aids are very often an essential guarantee for raising private funds in parallel. The situation of Aura Aero illustrates this problem. Created in 2018 and already employing about 60 employees, this company is developing a two-seater digital, electric, thus CO-efficient and silent aircraft. After completing its A-series financing necessary for the installation of its assembly line, Aura Aero continues to raise funds to start production of carbon-free aircraft for regional transport. But the Toulouse company is not able to access sufficient public funds, which hinders its raising of French private funds. However, this funding is essential for start-ups in industry who need to invest massively in their production tool before making any profit. Aura Aero does not even benefit at this stage from the Aerofund 4 fund on the ground that it is dedicated to aviation subcontractors only. The company is therefore moving to raise 30 million euros by the summer of 2021, million per million, while at the same time its foreign competitors raise several tens of million euros more easily and faster. This is shared by the forty start-ups – and their 700 employees – of the IoT Valley, a Toulouse ecosystem dedicated to the Internet of Things. These entrepreneurs specializing in the digital transformation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and intermediate-sized establishments (ETI) also have to engage in a real combatant's journey in order to benefit from public financial support. We cannot let foreign investors take over such French industrial nuggets when they can serve our will not only to preserve our country's strategic sovereignty, but also to accelerate the digital and ecological transitions of our economy. To reverse this trend, we need to further simplify access to financing from Bpifrance and the France Recovery Plan for Very Small Enterprises (TEE) and SMEs. We also need to revise certain criteria in the tender specifications, which are too restrictive for industrial companies. Finally, we must try to unify the points of entry and the arrangements for public funding, which are still too fragmented to date. How does the Government intend to better support industrial enterprises and innovative start-ups in their search for public funding?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u102	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u103	Deputy, the Government is mobilized to support businesses in the face of the economic and social consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19 and, above all, to prepare for the future. In keeping with emergency measures to support businesses and employees, the France Recovery Plan aims to support innovative companies that will be stakeholders in the economy of tomorrow. As you know, as a Member of Parliament for a land of excellence in the aviation industry, an extensive support plan for this sector was announced on 9 June 2020. In particular, it relies on a fund to support investments in the modernization, diversification and environmental transformation of processes in the sector. The call for projects is very successful with the industrial subcontracting companies in the aeronautics sector. Together with the teams of Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Deputy Minister for Industry, with whom I had the pleasure of sharing the preparation of this oral question session without debate, I wanted to tell you that 285 projects have been subsidized, amounting to €230 million to date, which has triggered more than €507 million of industrial investment in the territory. Of these projects, 193 came from TPEs and SMEs, for a grant amount of EUR 150 million out of 230, i.e. a majority of the appropriations, and in turn triggered EUR 283 million of industrial investment in the territory, i.e. more than the majority of the leverage effect of the 507 million I have just mentioned. In your department of Haute-Garonne, known for the strength of the aeronautics and space industry, thirty-one projects were supported, for an amount of public aid of 33 million euros, representing 68 million euros of industrial investment. The aid will go to 17 projects from TPE and SMEs, for €13 million in aid and €21 million in investment. In order to ensure the best support of companies in the sector at regional level, aeronautics monitoring units have been set up, allowing for more effective and closer collaboration between the State, the region and industry. The aim is to effectively relay the measures of the France Recovery Plan to enterprises, particularly to the TPEs and SMEs. In addition, a steering committee bringing together the Directorate-General for Enterprise (DGE) and the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation (DGAC) has been set up to direct companies in the aeronautics sector towards the France Recovery Plan. This committee has already analysed and directed more than ten cases. With regard specifically to the company Aura Aero, I am pleased to announce that at the end of the selection process for the modernisation fund, a favourable follow-up has been given to its application file. I would like to thank you for your engagement with TPEs and SMEs in this field of excellence. The Government is at your disposal to continue to monitor this case specifically in your territory. The Government welcomes the fact that territories like yours, which are full of very dynamic and innovative companies, can be accompanied effectively, and especially quickly, to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u104	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u105	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor to put his question, No 1508, on the dynamics of a fair territorial balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u106	The Government is committed to a dynamic of a fair territorial balance: it is a matter of getting civil servants out of large agglomerations in part and integrating them throughout the French territory. The approach is simple: to achieve a geographical rebalancing of the presence of public services by relocating jobs from metropolitan areas to medium-sized or even smaller municipalities. Starting in 2022, the electoral district of which I am the elected one, and in particular the commune of Redon, which has just under 10,000 inhabitants, must host a land advertising support service, which is part of the deconcentrated public services of the Directorate General of Public Finance (DGFIP). This service, whose establishment corresponds to the commitments of the State in terms of decentralization and deconcentration, must, in the long term, count about 50 jobs. The policy of relocation of State services has a direct impact in Ille-et-Vilaine, and especially in Redon; I'm very pleased with that. This will make it possible to strengthen the anchoring of citizens in rural areas while bringing them closer to the major cities. The land advertising service located in Redon will not be intended to receive from the public; It will be primarily responsible for speeding up the publication of notarial acts and for monitoring the updating of the real estate file. Twenty similar services will be deployed throughout France. Redon's choice is particularly relevant, given the strategic location and accessibility of this city, which makes it the closest Atlantic port to Paris, two hours six minutes from the capital and thirty minutes from Vannes, Rennes and Nantes. The agglomeration is the source of innovative projects at the confluence of two regions – Pays-de-la-Loire and Brittany – and three departments – Ille-et-Vilaine, Loire-Atlantique, Morbihan. In fact, Redon is at the heart of the AILB, the Alliance intermétropolitaine Loire-Bretagne, created on 12 April 2019 and which brings together thirteen communities of communes located between Rennes, Angers, Nantes and Saint-Nazaire, 227 communes representing more than 480000 inhabitants. While the AIB aims to create a new model of territorial development, the establishment of a deconcentrated state service in Redon is an important first step, along with a concrete encouragement from the state. Two years after the announcement of the establishment of a DGFIP Land Advertising Support Service in Redon, local stakeholders are concerned about whether commitments will be effectively met and met in a timely manner. There cannot be in our country two separate worlds, that of the metropolises that would have the exclusive presence of the state services, and that of the countryside, condemned to nourish the feeling of desertion by the latter. To give up the commitments of the state in Redon would be a bad signal to our fellow citizens who, in these troubled times, need to know that they are important in public policies, no matter where they live, for a better future for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u107	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u108	Mr President, thank you for your very precise question, which will allow me to quickly recall the objectives of the new network of proximity of DGFIP, which aims to relocate services from the cities to the territories. As you know, two years ago DGFIP embarked on a new approach to modernising its network and, above all, to rebalancing its services in the territories, precisely to prevent the services provided by the tax authorities from being uneven or at two speeds. The objective is clear: it is a matter of increasing the number of receptions of proximity by more than 30% in the form of participation in France Services houses, organization of appointments or permanences in town hall, presentation or video conferencing: no matter what the means, even if the presentiel is favored – I will come back to it. What is important for FIPB is that, through new media and video conferencing, every citizen can quickly access its FIPB online or on-line. At the same time, DGFIP has embarked on a move to the territories of certain services now located in large urban centres. It now covers 2500 jobs, almost half of the national objective of relocating the State. More than 400 communities responded to the call for applications launched in October 2019. On the basis of precise selection criteria, including the economic and social situation of the territory, its attractiveness, the real estate capacity, the conditions of reception of agents and their families, sixty-six cities were selected by the ministers to accommodate the relocated services of DGFIP. The town of Redon is one of them. The installation of the services will be carried out gradually from this year until 2026, taking into account the departures of the agents from their original service and, importantly, on the basis of the voluntary service of the agents who wish to join these new sites. Twenty-one services were already created in 2021 in 19 communes, corresponding to nearly 500 jobs transferred. In September 2022, fifty-five of the sixty-six municipalities will benefit from the introduction of services, i.e. 1210 jobs relocated, i.e. almost 50% of the target. In September 2020, the city of Redon was clearly informed by the ministers themselves of the timetable for the installation of the services. In 2022, it will host a support service for land advertising, which will deal remotely with part of the activity of land advertising services in metropolitan areas. To date, real estate studies have been launched, in connection, of course, with the mayor, to prepare for the effective installation of agents in compliance with the commitments made. Be assured, Mr. Member, that the Government is providing itself with the means to achieve this objective of fair territorial balance that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u109	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to put her question, No. 1521, concerning the dysfunctions of fibre deployment and the "STOC" mode.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u110	The transition to fibre optics is fully under way, and it is to be welcomed. By the end of last year, more than 10 million of our citizens were subscribers to fibre, of which more than 3.3 million were subscribers in 2020 alone. Some territories, such as Val-d'Oise, are already over 95% covered. In order to accompany this massive acceleration and the important requirements for connections, the final connection has sometimes, in practice, been entrusted by the chain to the commercial operator. In concrete terms, it is the operator with whom the inhabitants subscribe their contract of subscription to the fibre that intervenes, not the operator who is responsible for the deployment in the building or in the territory. This possibility, referred to in the technical jargon "STOC mode" – for "subcontracting commercial operators" – aims to allow faster deployment. However, it has resulted in a multiplication of actors having access to the facilities, resulting in a very worrying deterioration in the quality of the interventions. Indeed, the speakers are not always trained or always scrupulous, and it is, unfortunately, the inhabitants who pay for the broken pots. For two years now, I have been involved with ARCEP, the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Post Office, operators, residents and, of course, the Government. Communities and citizen collectives are also sounding the alarm. I had the opportunity to speak with the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, Cédric O, and to point out that on the ground, especially in the department of which I am elected, but not only, the situation remains serious and has lasted too long. As a result, most often, of sloppy interventions and, sometimes, of the degradation of fibre cabinets present in the public space, the inhabitants remain without internet connection for days, weeks and sometimes even months, with, during confinement, consequences that I let you imagine. Everyone turns the ball back and the locals don't know who to turn to. However, it is more obvious than ever that access to a high-performance internet connection is essential for employees to telework, traders and entrepreneurs to make their businesses live, for schoolchildren who have had to follow classes from home, for students whose courses are still often at a distance, and for citizens who need to take steps or access public services online. More broadly, this access to the network has become vital to maintain a valuable social link in times of health crisis and restrictions. After the many warnings I have mentioned, we must welcome the efforts made by ARCEP and the industry, in particular the professional agreements reached in March 2021, aimed at setting up new protocols. What guarantees do we have today as a result of these agreements? When will the situation really be resolved? What are you ready to do if the sector's announcements remain promises in the air, and on what horizon? I have made a number of concrete legislative and regulatory proposals to the Government aimed at increasing accountability and ensuring a better service for the people. How has the situation progressed since March and what are the next deadlines? I would like to be assured of the support of the Government for the STOC mode to be developed, if not abandoned, in the event that the situation does not improve in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u111	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u112	Madam Member of Parliament, you wanted to draw the Government's attention to the difficulties encountered in connection with fibre optic connections made under the mode of subcontracting commercial operator, known as "STOC mode". All public actors are fully aware of the increasing difficulties and alerts which, since 2019, concern the quality of fibre optic connections. In view of this, ARCEP, which you are familiar with, has taken the initiative of bringing together infrastructure operators and commercial operators within the same working group dedicated to the rapid improvement of interventions in STOC mode. In this context, technical developments have already been agreed and are currently being implemented, in particular with a view to more precise traceability and, above all, more effective control of interventions. Subcontracts have also been updated in order to increase the accountability of commercial operators and their subcontractors. These contractual developments, which are not anodious, now allow for a sanction of the commercial operator in the event of malfeasance or deterioration of the installations, or in the event of non-compliance with the subcontracting rules laid down in the contract. As you mentioned, honourable Member, 2021 saw the conclusion of major agreements between operators, aimed at improving the quality of connections and ensuring the sustainability of fibrous networks. These discussions have already taken a long time and it is now necessary for all operators to conclude these agreements fairly quickly, if not very quickly. ARCEP has indicated its willingness to intervene to secure the signing of these agreements by all operators, and we are following this issue very closely in Bercy – this is particularly the case of Secretary of State Cédric O. We are, of course, paying attention to the fact that their effects will soon materialize, particularly with regard to the sanctions mechanism. If these agreements were to prove insufficient, then a path to evolution of the regulatory framework could be explored. The 2021 agreements should, however, harmonize the conditions of intervention and gradually lead – at least that is what the Government hopes and the reason why we have changed the scheme – to the disappearance of the shortcomings found. Thank you for your vigilance. We remain fully available in Bercy to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u113	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u114	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor to put his question, No. 1512, concerning the remission of the tax on frontier workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u115	My question concerns the Federal Council's willingness to renegotiate the agreement between France and Switzerland on the surrender of the tax on frontier workers from different cantons. Swiss cantons such as Valais have requested the imposition at source of frontier workers and, consequently, the denunciation of the agreement on the taxation of the remuneration of frontier workers concluded in 1983 between the Swiss Federal Council and the French Government. This 1983 agreement maintains taxation at the place of residence. Financial compensation shall be paid; It amounts to 4.5% of the gross wage of all frontier workers in the country of work. As the number of frontier workers has increased sharply over the past 15 years, this financial crisis is a source of great desire. In what spirit is the Government faced with this request for renegotiation which, in my view, should be in line with the reduction of the 4.5 per cent that is returned to Switzerland? It should be remembered that the frontier workers in the canton of Geneva pay their taxes in Switzerland, but in return, the canton of Geneva only gives back to France 3.5% of the wage bill for frontier workers. Minister, could this rate of 3.5% be used as a benchmark for a possible renegotiation, if there should be renegotiation?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u116	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u117	On 11 April 1983 France and Switzerland signed an agreement laying down the procedures for the taxation of remuneration received by cross-border workers. On the Swiss side, the cantons that are parties to this agreement are Bern, Solothurn, Basel-City, Basel-Campagne, Vaud, Valais, Neuchâtel and Jura. By way of derogation from the international standards laid down by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which provide for the taxation of income from an employed activity at its place of employment, the agreement of 11 April 1983 simplified the system of taxation of cross-border workers by reserving taxation to the State of residence alone. In return for its renunciation of the imposition of the wages of cross-border workers, the State of pursuit of the activity shall receive annual financial compensation from the State of residence of such workers equal to 4.5% of their gross remuneration. The Swiss parties and the French parties are committed both to the preservation of this specific taxation regime and to the maintenance of the overall balance of the 1983 Agreement. This issue was addressed very directly when Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, visited Switzerland on 31 March. On that occasion, France and Switzerland agreed to engage in regular dialogue on this specific subject. You can count on the vigilance of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery in this regard. You can also count on the department to provide you with details or answers in the coming weeks and months to any questions concerning this important issue for cross-borders and, more broadly, for Franco-Swiss relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u118	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor to put his question, No. 1495, on the open-ended contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u119	Since last January, there have been nearly 7 million registered people in Pôle Emploi, against whom there would be some 300,000 unfilled jobs. Faced with mass unemployment, aggravated by the crisis of the covid -19, not everything was attempted. Flexibility of labour law, exemptions from social security contributions and the reduction of production taxes are all liberal solutions. We oppose them the sharing of working time, the ecological planning that creates jobs and the guarantee of employment that makes it possible to make the right to effective employment and no longer rely exclusively on the labour market and its hazards – this market that uses mass unemployment to exert downward pressure on wages and working conditions. However, unemployment is suffering. Its consequences kill more than 10,000 people a year. If you fail to tackle unemployment, you are attacking the unemployed with your unemployment insurance reform, which will make access to compensation more difficult, reduce benefits and increase inequalities. I'll talk to you about job stability. In law, the open-ended contract (CDI) is the rule and the fixed-term contract (CDD) must be used exceptionally. An employer may conclude a CDD with an employee only in certain cases: replacement of an employee absent for illness or leave; replacement of an employee whose contract is suspended; replacement of an employee who has left the undertaking and whose position will be abolished; pending the entry into service of an employee in CDI; for seasonal jobs for which the CDI is not used. Nearly 4 million people work in precarious jobs. Some 87% of hirings take place in short contracts. Precariousness is an endless tunnel. If half of the precarious people obtained a CDI after one year in 1982, this is now only one in five, not counting the forced part-time, almost exclusively occupied by women. In Emmanuel Macron's France, 1.5 million people even have two jobs to get out of it. This vision of the disposable employee devalues work, denies jobs and know-how. It prevents real projects, training or interest in its customers or users. We do not believe in the effectiveness or deterrentness of your bonus-malus system. Above all, we do not see why a bonus should be granted to those who simply respect the rule. Such a system will have an impact on the unemployment insurance accounts. Since the Government shares our concern about the propensity of companies to resort excessively to short contracts, we propose a method that will allow the CDI to be reinstated for what it is in the texts but that it is no longer in practice: the rule. Instead of the bonus-malus, we propose to introduce a quota of precarious contracts in companies: 10% for SMEs, 5% for large companies. What do you think, Madam Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u120	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u121	The use of short-term contracts has grown strongly in the last 25 years, particularly in recent years. However, these short contracts lock employees in precarious conditions, with consequences for access to housing, credit and social rights. The fight against precarious work is based on several levers, including the reform of unemployment insurance, which provides for the creation of a bonus-malus. This will provide a financial incentive for employers to offer more CDI and to extend the duration of the CSDs, without increasing the overall level of contributions and thus without damaging job creation. Our policy also aims to enforce the law: the CDI remains the rule and the CSD is the exception. The Ministry of Labour and the courts are mobilized to enforce these fundamental principles. You are proposing to introduce a quota of CSDs in companies. I'm not in favour of it. We want to preserve contractual freedom. The use of CSDs is not inherently unfounded: it can meet an economic need. A ceiling seems to us to be a disconnected constraint from the reality of the terrain. Instead, we need to move employers towards a better retention of the workforce, which requires social dialogue. The Government has entrusted the social partners in the branches with the task of establishing a number of rules governing the use of short contracts. Finally, the consumer sectors of short contracts, often those most affected by the crisis, are called upon to take advantage of existing mechanisms to manage their flexibility needs without degrading the quality of jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u122	Mr Cédric Roussel has the floor to put his question, No 1503, on the amount of the residence allowance in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u123	My question is about the living allowance of public officials – which is part of their remuneration – especially in my department of the Alpes-Maritimes. The rules governing the allocation of the residence allowance are currently laid down in Article 9 of the Decree of 24 October 1985, which provides that the amount of the allowance shall be calculated by applying to the gross salary of the staff member a variable rate depending on the territorial area in which the commune in which he performs his duties is classified. For many years, the territory of the Alpes-Maritimes has suffered from a lack of attractiveness among public officials, including hospital officials or public security officials: open posts remain unfilled. The exchanges I had with officials led me to believe that the cost of housing is clearly a barrier to mobility to this department where real estate prices continue to rise. Even within the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, there are disparities between the departments that nothing can justify: the residence allowance is 3% in Bouches-du-Rhône and Var, compared with only 1% in the Alpes-Maritimes and other departments. In March 2001, therefore, more than 20 years ago, a circular from the Ministry of Public Service and State Reform allowed some municipalities to benefit from a reclassification of the residence allowance rate, based in particular on changes in the composition of urban agglomerations during the March 1999 census and on the composition of new agglomerations between 1 January 1991 and 1 January 2000. Since general population censuses are no longer possible every five years, the administration can no longer update the classification of municipalities within the three areas of residence allowance. In this context, a reform of the residency allowance scheme seems necessary in the face of the indirect effects of the mismatch between the recruitment needs of the Territory's civil servants, the price of housing and the residential allowance rate. The new zoning will have to correspond to the current economic situation. What are the options envisaged by the Government to put an end to this breakdown in territorial equality caused by the disparities in the residence allowance paid to public officials?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u124	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u125	Mr President, I apologize for the absence of my colleague, Amélie de Montchalin, who asked me to answer you. The presence of our public officials is the essential condition for the proper functioning of our public services throughout the territory, as close as possible to the French. The Government is fully mobilized to maintain and enhance the attractiveness of their jobs wherever they are, including the establishment of an adequate residency allowance. My colleague Amélie de Montchalin has therefore launched a mission to take stock of the existing arrangements in the territories considered less attractive by public officials. The situation of each department will be studied in particular according to the characteristics of the cities that make up it – this will of course be the case for the Alpes-Maritimes. The aim is to achieve a better distribution within the territory of our public officials and public services through various levers – compensation, social action, better career management. It should be noted that the zoning of the residency allowance has not been revised since a 2001 circular. Like you, we believe that there is a need to reform a system that is based on outdated foundations, which means identifying objective indicators because case-by-case treatment would not be a fair solution. The Mission therefore seeks to identify the most relevant levers. In particular, the Government is working on changes in compensation for greater equity between central government and deconcentrated services. Trade union organizations are largely involved in the Minister's discussions. The attractiveness of the territories for public officials is at the heart of the Government's priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u126	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor to put his question, No. 1514, on the toxic borrowings of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u127	Even if you have nothing to do with it, Madam Deputy Minister, I regret the absence this morning of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations, Ms Jacqueline Gourault – as I regretted the absence of Mrs Amélie de Montchalin to answer the previous questions. I would like to draw your attention to the so-called toxic borrowings made by local authorities in the 2000s. In the Centre-Manche, the Point Fort Environnement is a mixed union that treats waste of 120,000 inhabitants through a waste disposal system, the Saint-Fromond landfill, a methanization plant and a sorting centre. The strong point is marked by an abyssal debt of 95.4 million euros, linked to this type of borrowing: it doubled after the financial crisis of 2008 and the explosion of the Euro-Swiss franc parity. Despite the "renegotiation", despite the large amount of State aid, for a cumulative total of 41 million euros in 2028, the date of the initial end of the aid, the situation is now such that the member communities had to increase their contribution by 34 % this year, which has a large impact on the taxpayers. This union is far from the only one concerned in France, but the situation is not precisely known. How many communities are affected? What is the cumulative amount of outstanding amounts? What are the big years of deadlines? In addition, several options are available to assist this joint union and these communities. I am thinking of extending state aid beyond 2028 in order to preserve the necessary investment budgets – investments are now absolutely impossible – and to maintain and develop the Strong Point tool. This would in some way be a precautionary measure. I am also thinking of the solidarity of the banks – who are getting richer here in a scandalous way – in order to pay off the toxic loans. The legal framework established by the 2014 Finance Act of 29 December 2013, which, surprisingly, aims to reduce the heavy liability of these same banks, could be amended. Finally, debt cantonment could be an interesting solution. Even if it is not possible in the current legal framework, provisions could be made to this effect in the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 4D, or in the next draft finance law. In what forms does the Government intend to support these communities in difficulty, and the strong point in particular, in a renewed approach, in order to ensure a future for them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u128	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u129	Mr Gourault, first of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague, Jacqueline Gourault, who was absent this morning. As you pointed out, the state has been at the rendezvous to organize the exit from crisis by creating an aid fund. The Court of Auditors recalled that responsibilities were shared between banks, which should not have proposed such products, the State, which should have better advised elected officials, and the communities which should not have committed themselves to doubtful borrowings. This is why this support fund is financed in combination with an abundance of the general state budget, but also with a tax paid by the banking sector. This year, for example, the EUR 189.4 million of the fund's annuities will be covered by this tax to the tune of EUR 100 million. In addition, the Local Finance Corporation (SFIL) and Dexia abound the fund to the tune of 11.5 million euros per year. Banks are therefore well used. Let me give you a few figures: 676 communities had filed a file, corresponding to 1,164 loans, and 580 of them accepted the outstretched hand of the state for 998 loans. As at 31 December 2019, 87% of these loans had been repaid early. The situation is therefore in the process of being resolved. Of course, there are more complex cases that remain circumscribed, such as the case of the Strong Point Union to which we pay particular attention. Its representatives were received by the Prefect at the beginning of the month. I note that the elected representatives have undertaken a real and fundamental reflection on the future of the union, the dimensioning of these equipment and the financial impacts for its members. This is the right approach, and the state will stay with them to accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u130	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u131	It is true that the state has been on the rendezvous – thank you for the figures you have given us – but there are still very special situations such as that of the Strong Point. I repeat, a debt of EUR 95.4 million weighs on 120,000 inhabitants. It's huge! The state was really present yesterday, I don't dispute it, but what does it intend to do tomorrow? There is an urgent need for the Minister to engage with the few communities still in difficulty – your interesting figures show that there are not so many. Since it is now a matter of dealing with cases that are now marginal, a response should be tailored to each case, including the Strong Point case.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u132	Myriane Houplain, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 1520, concerning the financing of public spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u133	For my first oral question without debate, I would like to draw your attention to the commitment to the renewal of the mining basin (ERBM), more specifically to the taking over of the costs associated with the development of public spaces. Our mining basin in Pas-de-Calais, a land rich in history, has many assets, but it is also a territory in great pain. Its economic situation is particularly fragile; unemployment is well above the national average, and the risk of plant closures – the most recent being Bridgestone's in Bethune – raises concerns about this trend. The former mining towns of Bruaysis and Bethunus are subject to real budgetary constraints which drastically limit their room for manoeuvre. However, the economic, social and urban transformation of our communes is an imperative. This is the very purpose of the government-supported commitment to the renewal of the mining basin. It is urgent to transform our cities and villages, to beautify them again. I am thinking in particular of the development of public spaces which directly contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the inhabitants. However, such arrangements have a particularly high cost to communities with a high budget. Without the participation of the state – notably through the recovery plan – it will be impossible for them to implement these daily projects. Madam Minister Delegate, can you clarify the terms and conditions of the government's engagement with the communities in the mining basin to enable them to further strengthen their daily activities in the service of the people?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u134	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u135	I would be grateful if you would excuse the absence of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations, who could not be with us this morning. Since the signing of the commitment for the renewal of the mining basin of Nord and Pas-de-Calais on 7 March 2017, the Government has resolutely committed itself to this territory marked by the decline of the coal industry. In order to address the wounds of the past, many construction sites have been set up to renovate mining towns and thereby improve housing and quality of life; to strengthen economic attractiveness and create conditions for return to employment; to remove the obstacles to movement by launching a programme to modernize the A21 motorway; Finally, to act in favour of equal opportunities. The results are as follows: 8500 housing units will be rehabilitated or being rehabilitated by the end of the year, and more than 4000 companies have been supported since the creation of the "urban basin to boost" tax system. In order to continue this trend, the signatories of the ERBM agreed to continue efforts in favour of this territory until 2027. The State is obviously in favour of this and supports this approach. The urban aspect of the renovation of mining towns has been identified as a priority of Act II. We share your observation that the habitat, even perfectly renovated, is not enough for the cohesion of a territory. Discussions are under way on the financing of investments that will require the assistance of all to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u136	Mrs Myriane Houplain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u137	Madam Deputy Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u138	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to raise her question, No. 1504, on strengthening the protection and security of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u139	On 23 May, Mr Jean-Claude Girard, mayor of the commune of Ouges, in my constituency, was the victim of a violent attack; He was seriously injured. One of its officials, who had the courage to intervene, was also attacked. This spread of hatred and violence against an edile of the Republic is of course not acceptable. I therefore take this opportunity to say once again my full support. Of course, we will never let insecurity and violence prevail in our country; The recent measures deployed in my Côte d'Or department bear witness to this. I am thinking in particular of the last integrated security contract signed between the State and the city of Dijon, but also of the State's commitment in my constituency. Indeed, I had asked the Ministry of the Interior about the insecurity in the Mail district in Chenôve, an approach to which he responded by the action since this neighborhood is now a "reconquer republican quarter". Thanks to these devices, we have an additional 42 staff in the city of Dijon. It's never been seen before! The event of May 23rd is serious: to attack an elected official is to attack our Republic and its values. In order to protect the latter and to guarantee our citizens a serene atmosphere of life, what specific means will be used to strengthen the fight against violence against our elected representatives and, more broadly, against all the French? Within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité, many exchanges took place: what place do their conclusions reserve for the specific training of law enforcement personnel in this field?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u140	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u141	Madam Member, I would be grateful if you would excuse the absence of the Minister of the Interior. The facts you mentioned are unacceptable. They called for an immediate reaction from the gendarmerie and led to a rogatory commission. The persons in question are now identified and are called to account for their actions before the courts. The work currently being carried out within the framework of the Beauvau de la sécurité pays particular attention to violence and incivilities. The violence against our elected officials is unbearable, and the State's response is firm. Several arrangements have been put in place by the security forces, including the gendarmerie. A co-produced training course with the Association of Mayors of France was organized to help elected officials better understand situations of violence. Since the launch of this training last December, more than 5000 mayors and deputy mayors have been trained in connection with the GIGN – the intervention group of the national gendarmerie – by the regional negotiators. These trainings will increase in the coming weeks. In terms of staffing, an additional 10,000 gendarmes and police officers will be recruited during the quinquennium. The operational reserve of the gendarmerie will be increased to 50,000 women and men by 2024. With regard to means, the recovery plan allowed unprecedented investments in favour of the vehicles of our police officers and field gendarmes, their protective and intervention equipment, real estate and their digital tools. Finally, the widespread use of mobile cameras and work tools will help to build closer proximity to our fellow citizens and create greater confidence on their part.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u142	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u143	I thank the Government for the very strong responses provided by the State in order to ensure the safety of our citizens and that of the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u144	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u145	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u146	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to speak on his question, No. 1515, concerning the fight against insecurity and terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u147	I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice about the many flaws and shortcomings of the draft law on the prevention of acts of terrorism and intelligence, a text revealing serious shortcomings that are increasingly revolting our fellow citizens. The criminal laxity of this government leads to more delinquency and fewer prisoners: it is a numerical reality. Only 10 per cent of the prison places that the President of the Republic had pledged to create have been opened so far and the 8,000 additional places announced – whose delivery is only planned for 2025 – are actually designed not to allow the imprisonment of more offenders and criminals, but to better smooth prison overcrowding, with the aim of achieving a rate of 80 per cent individual confinement. These places will therefore be created to improve the living conditions of prisoners more than to enhance the safety of our fellow citizens. The Minister of Justice had well announced that he would be, above all, "the minister of prisoners". While a recent poll reveals that eight out of ten French people consider justice to be too lax, this bill will not change the situation. The amendments we had tabled were intended to provide for the systematic expulsion of aliens – illegal, refugees, asylum seekers or those with residence permits – who were allegedly involved in terrorist acts or posed a serious threat to public order. They were rejected by the Government. These evictions would, however, prevent dramatic changes, but would also broaden and increase the surveillance of other potentially dangerous individuals, who remain present in our territory. In order to ensure better protection for all, the fight against illegal immigration should also be a top priority. The author of the beheadings in Notre-Dame Basilica in Nice was an irregular Tunisian. The young Pakistani terrorist who struck two people near Charlie Hebdo's former premises with a chopper had entered France irregularly. Samuel Paty was beheaded by a Chechen who had applied for political refugee status. However, no strong measures are being taken to combat these cases, which are becoming increasingly isolated. Finally, the extension of security detention to terrorist crimes and offences or the withdrawal of French nationality to persons who were parties to jihad, in order to prevent their return to France, could also have been the subject of debate, but this has not been the case. My question is therefore very simple: does the Minister of Justice finally intend to take the strong and urgent measures necessary to combat insecurity and terrorism effectively, and to make the security of the French a top priority? It is my understanding that general states of justice will be organized immediately after the adoption of the draft law on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence. It is already a confession of failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u148	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u149	I apologize for the absence of my colleague Marlène Schiappa, who cannot be present this morning. The Government is determined to continue the fight against irregular immigration, despite the health context that continues to affect our means of action by closing borders, shrinking or even interrupting air links, stopping identification procedures by certain consulates or imposing health requirements by the countries concerned by the return of their nationals. On 29 September, the Minister of the Interior signed a circular on the expulsion of foreigners who have committed serious offences or pose a serious threat to public order. This text recalls that, since the presence on our soil of a foreigner in a regular situation constitutes a threat to public order, his residence permit must be withdrawn from him. Thus, 405 withdrawals were decided on this ground between 1 October and 30 April last. For foreigners in an irregular situation, the emphasis is on the remoteness of the most prominent public order profiles. These individuals are given priority treatment by all the links in the chain of remoteness. This has led to the removal, since 18 October 2020, of 143 illegal aliens, 114 of whom were on the alerts file for the prevention of terrorist radicalisation. Finally, the State services pay close attention to individuals leaving prison, through formal procedures and information exchange between the prefectures and prison services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u150	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u151	Thank you for your answer. It is necessary to compare the figures you have put forward – 405 withdrawals of residence permits here, 143 removals there – to the 30,000 illegal immigrants who are regularized each year. Of the 120,000 asylum-seekers entering our country, 20,000 are granted refugee status, another 20,000 – one in six – actually end up leaving, and 800,000 become illegal. It is this issue that must really be taken into account: everyone knows that our reception capacities are saturated and that France has about 400,000 illegal immigrants. We were already reminding Gérard Collomb of these facts at the beginning of his term of office. You systematically oppose the principles of humanity and firmness, but we see that, faithful to a majority who leans largely to the left, you claim above all to show humanity by broadening the criteria of family reunification. To illustrate my point, I will refer to an example that concerns your area of competence, Madam Deputy Minister: during the examination of the first two five-year finance bills, we denounced the Government's decision to undermine the budgets of local missions, which put many young people in difficulty. If you now take advantage of the youth guarantee, let us not forget that at the time, when the electoral deadlines were still far away, this government, in this area as in many others, applied very different principles than those it currently displays: it abandoned the young, as it abandons the security of the French today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u152	Mrs Bessot Ballot, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1501 on an innovative mechanism to combat domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u153	According to the words of Deputy Minister Elisabeth Moreno, "it is a whole society that is sick of this violence and must become aware of this scourge" which is violence against women. This awareness must take place everywhere in France and emanate from the ground as well as from the law. We must all mobilize. As such, I will mention an exemplary initiative from my constituency, namely the creation of an innovative information tool for victims of domestic violence, particularly in rural areas. The Haute-Saône Gendarmerie Group, in collaboration with the departmental delegate for women's rights and equality and with local victim support associations, has developed a new information tool for users, which will be distributed through municipalities. It is a paper card showing all the national and departmental telephone numbers listening to people who request it, as well as a QR code to be photographed in order to be automatically redirected to practical information and existing structures in Haute-Saône. The distribution of this map to elected officials began at the end of April and the scheme is expected to be deployed in the eight departments of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté by the end of the year. This distribution is carried out by the law enforcement agencies as well as by the trainees of the universal national service, within the framework of their mission of general interest. A partnership with the national education services is under discussion in order to make known, in particular through school psychologists, the emergency numbers to students affected by violence in their homes. A panel of communication materials is already available in the context of the fight against domestic violence, to inform targeted people of the existing aid provisions. It'll never be too broad. However, the means of communication to which I refer, both simple and effective, is particularly practical in that it comes in the form of a simple, inexpensive and discreet business card, which makes it even easier to disseminate information. To deal with this serious issue, which every new crime makes all the more urgent, it is imperative to mobilize all the active forces on the ground and to go to the most effective. That is what we are committed to doing through this initiative. How can this innovative mechanism fit into the panel of tools deployed by the Government and in its action against domestic violence against women throughout France?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u155	I apologize for the absence of my colleague Elisabeth Moreno, who asked me to answer on her behalf. Please highlight this practice, a source of inspiration, imagined in your constituency. We measure with you the extent of domestic violence throughout the country, especially in rural areas, where victims are sometimes more isolated. That is why the Government will pay particular attention to the situation of women during the interministerial committee on rural areas next month. The numerous mechanisms mobilized by the Government to combat domestic violence must be relayed throughout France. To do this, we encourage the deployment of information points in shopping malls or small shops, which can make listening numbers visible, as do bakeries and pharmacies. We also strengthen the deployment of permanences, especially in France services houses or on itinerant buses. The device you share contributes to this dynamic. I would like to pay tribute to this partnership work. The QR code allows victims to be informed quickly of the relevant numbers and the permanences in the vicinity. Elisabeth Moreno had the opportunity to meet with the police major who acted as a referent on domestic violence in the Yvelines. The latter has also put in place a QR code outlining all the reception facilities for victims of domestic violence in the department. The Associate Minister closely monitors the development of this innovative practice at the regional level and encourages its dissemination. Women who are victims of violence are not alone. Reacting as you do in Haute-Saône can change everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u156	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u157	Thank you for that clear answer. We see clearly the existence of a proactive policy, which must enable us to move forward together. But nothing will ever be possible without the victims, who want to get out of this infernal spiral.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u158	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-15-O1305.u159	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on the restitution of the work of the Finance and Social Affairs Committees on the Spring of Evaluation. The meeting is adjourned.
