ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u1	The next item is the final reading of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022 (No. 4725).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u2	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u3	We are here for the final reading of the Social Security Financing Bill (SSP) for 2022. It is with some emotion that I take the floor before you for the final stage of the fifth and final PLFSS of the legislature. It is a great opportunity to recall our ambitions and achievements, referring to the reform that we have undertaken both to transform support for autonomy in a sustainable manner and to strengthen our health system and the social protection of the French. Such developments are all the more important in the current health circumstances. Indeed, the epidemic that we have been facing since the beginning of 2020, which has unfortunately regressed in intensity over the last few weeks, has reminded those who may still doubt that the health system and social protection are at the heart of the lives of our citizens; They are an essential achievement for our country, which must be preserved and strengthened. It is therefore the last PLFSS of the legislature, but it is fully in line with the actions and reforms undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium. It is thus an effective, pragmatic and responsible PLFSS that will strengthen our health care system and support our caregivers; But it is also a text that will improve access to care and the protection of our citizens through very concrete measures. Firstly, as we have had the opportunity to say in the previous stages of the discussion, no one can deny that the situation of social accounts is difficult. Unfortunately, we are far from the one we had two years ago, which was so close to a long-awaited balance. But, in the face of the health crisis, we have taken on our responsibilities: we have chosen to strengthen the social state to protect all French people, regardless of their situation, in order to allow them to go through this difficult period at best and to limit its painful consequences. We fully assume this choice and I believe that we can be proud of our country's resilience to the crisis; It owes a great deal to its social protection system and to the exceptional means that we have mobilised for almost two years. So rest assured that if the epidemic increased in intensity in the coming period and made it necessary to take further measures to protect the health of our fellow citizens, we would pursue this path with determination. The PLFSS for 2022 also draws lessons from the period so special that we are going through, which has demonstrated the central role of the hospital and more broadly of social security. We therefore pursue with great determination the new momentum for health and for those who care. Efforts to rearm our health care system, to raise the salaries and careers of caregivers and to invest in our health care facilities were essential. This FSLP is thus unambiguously pursuing the implementation of the commitments of the Health Security, in order to build a more resilient health system. In total, it will therefore be more than 10 billion euros per year that will have been invested for the salary enhancement of the health and medical-social professions within ONDAM – the national health insurance expenditure target – between 2020 and 2022. This commitment to support health and medico-social workers in the face of the crisis and, beyond that, to strengthen the attractiveness of their trades in a structural way, we have confirmed with you during the parliamentary work. I am thinking in particular of the increase of the ONDAM 2021 by 1.7 billion euros, both to draw the consequences of the additional costs associated with the epidemic of covid-19 and – above all – to ensure the entry into force, as of November 2021, of the salary adjustments resulting from the agreements for a salary increase for professionals caring for the social and medico-social institutions and services, known as Laforcade, as announced by the Prime Minister two weeks ago. In addition, we have provided for the upgrading of health professionals working in homes and institutions with disabilities, at the expense of the departments, to the amount of 183 euros per month; It will be fully compensated by the CNSA – Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy – in the interests of equity between caregivers working in different structures. In the field of disability alone, an additional 74,000 caregivers will benefit from a major salary increase as of January 1, 2022. In this area, the PLFSS for 2022 also provides nearly EUR 150 million for new measures. The aim is to accompany the evolution of the supply of establishments, which must be oriented more sharply towards services, in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations. To develop services, €18 million is increasing funding to support children's schooling, including €12 million for special education units for autistic children and €6 million for education units for polydisabled children. Almost 15 million are dedicated to the disability component of the national strategy for prevention and protection of children, and 7 million to the deployment of perinatal and parental support services for persons with disabilities. Finally, 9 million are earmarked for strengthening coordination and guidance platforms (COPs), in order to speed up the process of diagnosis and early intervention; These are extended to children between 7 and 12 years of age. Naturally, beyond the field of disability, I do not forget the material investments we make. In 2022, more than 2 billion euros will be devoted to national support for health investment in ONDAM, and I welcome the announcements of support that we have made since the start of the year, close to the ground, with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health; They offer unprecedented opportunities in the coming years for the modernization of health facilities and EHPADs, serving a strengthened and modernized health care offering in all territories. On the other hand, while the health crisis has strained our health system, we wanted to learn the positive lessons from the response to the covid -19 epidemic, capitalizing on what worked during the crisis and sustaining innovations that seemed bold yesterday but are now well established in the lives of French and health professionals. I am thinking, for example, of digital health, and in particular of teleconsultation and telecare: during the crisis, we passed almost overnight from a few hundred to 1 million teleconsultations a week. I hope that this practice will continue and contribute to the challenge of medical desertification; This is obviously not the only answer to this question, but it is a relevant answer, which appears to be particularly useful in combating this phenomenon, within a wider arsenal. Let me now go into more detail on the main measures in the PLFSS for 2022. I will begin with access to health care, a major and priority issue for the Government, which is divided into a series of strong provisions, significantly enriched through parliamentary work. First of all, by now allowing orthoptists to make a visual check for weak corrections and to prescribe suitable visual aids, the text facilitates access to visual care. This provision, which has been the subject of substantive work for more than a year, itself based on broad consultation with the various stakeholders, will greatly reduce wait times and increase the number of patients received. It is estimated that 6 million patients will be affected by the measure. In the continuity of this approach, you have been at the initiative of new territorial experiments on direct access; They took the form of coordinated exercise structures, dedicated respectively to masseur-kinesitherapists and speech therapists. They will make it possible to test this direct access system in several departments, in order to identify its added value in terms of access to care before possible generalisation, if of course its balance sheet proved positive. In the course of the discussions, a provision was also introduced to allow nurses practising in advanced practice, on an experimental basis and for a period of three years, the first requirement for compulsory medical prescriptions. This experiment fully follows the recommendations of the Ségur de la santé, which aim to strengthen the role of advanced practice nurses (APIs) as first resorts. The first requirement will make it possible to fluidize the course of care of patients, while maintaining the principle of collaboration with and coordination of care with the physician. Following the foundation of mental health and psychiatry, you have also approved the Government's proposal for the provision of health insurance for psychological sessions, following the sending of a letter of address by a doctor from the beginning of 2022 and throughout the national territory. This represents a major step forward in the area of mental health, which has long been the poor parent of health policies and whose essential character has been revealed by the health crisis. Everyone will be able to recognize the determination with which the Government has dealt – in all its dimensions – with this major subject, which has required a response for so many years. In order to improve the follow-up of women following childbirth, we have also planned the creation of a mandatory postnatal care. Based on a comprehensive approach to prevention, it will aim to identify early signs of postpartum depression or risk factors, and to assess the potential needs of the woman or spouse for accompaniment. On the same theme, a long-term sexual health consultation will now be fully managed for young men under 25 years of age. This provision, which complements other governmental and parliamentary initiatives, will make it possible to better mobilize young men around sexual health issues, including the choice of appropriate contraception. To combat social and territorial inequalities in health, you have also adopted provisions that will allow the deployment of mobile teams of precarious health (EMSP) as soon as the next re-entry. It is an additional cornerstone of the Government's policy since the beginning of the quinquennium to improve access to care for all. This work in favour of improving access to care does not imply any compromise on the quality and safety of actions. As such, you have adopted a series of provisions to strengthen the supervision of health centres, including a treaty arrangement for them, as well as a strengthening of the sanctions they will face in the event of failure to fulfil their obligations. Such a strengthening of regulation will put an end to sometimes revolting opportunistic practices, on which many of you have alerted us, in particular the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, whose commitment I welcome. I will not go back in detail, but the PLFSS for 2022 is also trying to generalize some experiments, in order to learn from what has worked. I am thinking, for example, of the "Mission: Back to Your Path" experiment, which allows us to adopt a comprehensive approach to the fight against childhood obesity. With regard to the measures contained in the PLFSS for access to care, I will also mention the full reimbursement of contraception up to 25 years, or the extension of access to complementary health care, which is made automatic for the beneficiaries of the RSA or the minimum old age. I would also like to make a specific incise concerning the fight against addictions of all kinds. In the context of this PLFSS, we have made the choice to allow the extension and deepening of an experiment that will take the name of "addiction stopping care", or HSA, to better reflect the complementarity it introduces between social respite, health and public tranquillity. It is essential to strengthen the health and medico-social care of people suffering from drug addiction; This is the only solution we have so far to respond to these very difficult situations in a sustainable and humane manner. In addition, as part of the fight against addictions, it was decided to extend the scope of the fund to combat addictions. This will make it possible to better respond to new addictions, in particular those affecting young audiences, with regard to new problematic uses such as games, sports bets or screens. Finally, it was decided to experiment with the health insurance coverage of nicotine substitutes provided in non-prescription pharmacies. It will complement the panel of actions implemented to reduce the number of smokers, an ambitious public health target, by engaging as many people as possible in an active smoking cessation approach. Access to care also means access to treatment, which requires better funding for innovation and security of supply. We must empower the laboratories by continuing to lower prices on the most amortized products, to avoid the phenomena of rent, and by being more demanding on stock failures. The text thus reflects the measures announced in the framework of the work of the Strategic Council of Health Industries (CSIS) by the President of the Republic. In line with our demanding approach, more than EUR 1 billion will be spent on the reimbursement of health products. The PLFSS includes an additional expansion of the list and provides 300 million to facilitate access to expensive molecules throughout the territory. We will also ensure that access to these products is not dependent on the financial health of the hospital that delivers them. In addition, we provide a framework for the production by hospital pharmacies of medicines in the event of supply disruptions. The crisis of the covid-19 has led to many new initiatives. At the height of the crisis, hospital pharmacies made curare and other anaesthetists out of stock. The PLFSS maintains this possibility. Finally, we are completing an essential stage in the reform of support for autonomy with an important package of measures. We are radically transforming the offer to people who are losing their autonomy and we are starting the creation of the public service of autonomy mentioned by the President of the Republic in his last speech. This ambitious reform has been allocated €1.3 billion for new measures by 2025. It will be financed until 2024 by the means already released for the autonomy branch. A fraction of 0.15% of the generalised social contribution (GSC) will then take over. This structural and funded reform will be carried out in close connection with the departments, which will be accompanied by the profound transformations induced by the residential turn that France intends to take at last. First of all, we invest in improving the readability and quality of the home service offer and we guarantee greater equity in the financing of structures throughout the territory, through a national reference rate for home-based interventions, for the sake of universality, and through additional funding for the quality of home-based services and the improvement of the working conditions of professionals. A fee reform for home nursing services (DHS) is also planned to ensure that they are funded according to the needs of the attendants. Finally, a major project to simplify and merge services is under way to create the Home Autonomy Service (SAD), the sole contact point for elderly people who are losing their autonomy. Taking these home care choices allows us to meet the desire of our fellow citizens to age at home, while transforming institutions, which must adapt their reception to people of an increasingly advanced age. To this end, the PLFSS provides for the generalization of night nurse periodicity by 2023, an increase in the time of the co-ordinating physician's presence in each EHPAD, and the recruitment of an additional 10,000 caregivers. We also assign new missions to EHPAD, some of which will become resource centres for home professionals in their living areas and will benefit from the considerable investment resources decided by the Sécur de la santé, which will greatly improve the working conditions of professionals. Let me go back to one point that I think is essential in several ways: the experimentation of a business card for home helpers is an important step, which you agreed to reintroduce into the PLFSS after it was abolished by the Senate. The crisis has revealed, among other things, the difficulty of home helpers to make their essential work known to vulnerable people and to obtain the necessary equipment. This experiment constitutes a major act of recognition of their activity and their place in the community of "care". I have heard in the House of Commons that this business card is "anecdotal". That's enough! It will be a mark of consideration for home helpers, through the willingness of the testing departments and with the support of the CNSA. Even more so, it will be a sign of the consecration of their "professionality" finally recognized, as will the more worthy wages allowed by the unprecedented funding mobilized by the State, in support of the departments. This is therefore a measure that I strongly support. Finally, the PLFSS for 2022 includes several provisions to improve social protection for all. I am thinking of the creation of a right to inform the beneficiaries of family benefits about the nature and extent of their rights, as well as the strengthening of the protection of workers on platforms. I am also thinking of the extension of the age to which older children can continue to benefit from the local health insurance scheme of Alsace-Moselle as the beneficiaries of their parents, which will allow them better access to care, and to the creation of a death capital for the families of the agricultural non-employees, which will guarantee them financial support in case of death of one of their own after a disease, an accident of private life or – this is a phenomenon against which we try to fight, but which unfortunately remains present – suicide. Finally, I am thinking of alimony and our commitment to the fight against unpaid payments. After establishing the public maintenance service, in order to go further and better protect the families concerned, we generalize this intermediation so as not to make the most fragile of us bear this financial insecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I have not exhausted the presentation of the considerable number of important provisions in the PLFSS 2022 and the enrichments brought about by parliamentary work. In this regard, and in conclusion, I would particularly like to thank you for the constructive atmosphere in which the text was discussed. I welcome the work to improve the text carried out under the guidance of the rapporteur-general, Thomas Mesnier, and the rapporteurs from the various branches, Caroline Janvier, Monique Limon, Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Paul Christophe, under the auspices of the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Fadila Khattabi. I also thank the two draftsmen of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, Cendra Motin and Michel Lauzzana. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Thanks to your commitment and commitment, the 2022 Social Security Financing Bill before you today strengthens the fundamentals of our social protection system, improves the daily lives of our citizens and continues the great transformations that have taken place since the beginning of the quinquennium. In other words, this text contains great progress for the health and social security of tomorrow and we can be collectively proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u4	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u5	As the review of the PLFSS for 2022 concludes and our assembly is about to give its last word, it seems to me less useful to go back in detail on all the measures contained in the text, and which the minister delegate has just presented, than to recall the fundamentals on which it is built and the perspectives it lays. As far as fundamentals are concerned, I want to reiterate the confidence that the Government and our majority place in social security, as demonstrated by the last five PLFSS. A valuable legacy of the post-war era, social security remains resolutely present in its aims, philosophy and organizational style. To give him all our confidence, however, is not to abandon him to a immobilist logic. Social security was a revolution in its time and cannot progress without evolution. In the course of the legislature, we continued to re-establish the accounts – they were almost in balance before the crisis – to better face the risks ahead. We have changed the financing of social security without affecting either its sustainability or its attachment in principle to labour income. We have created a new branch, the fifth, by inserting it in a structured and coherent way in the pre-existing whole. We have embarked on the transformation of the health system, both in the city and in the hospital, and have increased access to care, especially for the most vulnerable, without ever withdrawing our confidence in the diversity of models of organization or care. Because we believe in this model, we wanted to transform it. Because we believe in the value of the men and women who operate the system, we have made an unprecedented effort towards health personnel and medical and social institutions and services. This immense work is not finished and many challenges are still before us. Tomorrow we will have to restore the balance of social security accounts. This objective is fundamental for reasons not accounting, but political, in the noblest sense of the term. We must keep the promise we make to each generation: those who contribute to the system must inherit it in a version as preserved as possible. Tomorrow we will also have to make our social protection system in general and our health system in particular fairer, more accessible and more effective. We have already embarked on many reforms – health care, the end of activity pricing, the whole T2A, the 100% health basket, the extension of paternity leave, intermediation for the payment of maintenance payments, the increase of the minimum old age, etc. – but their implementation must be monitored and their purpose respected. Meeting the needs of an ageing population is a challenge in terms of the health, autonomy and sustainability of the pension system. As rapporteur-general, I am concerned, and sometimes even dismayed, that these issues are hidden in the public debate by two fogs as thick as they are artificial when a fundamental deadline is set to come. The first mystification is that by which we are sought to make us believe that social issues do not interest the French while they concern the protection of their health and autonomy, the construction of their families and their pensions. Such a situation is all the more paradoxical because these questions help to define the identity of France, its sense of solidarity and responsibility, the way in which we build the social bond. A better built, fairer and more modern social model can do much to reconcile the French. The second mystification that I fear is that of the overbidding, which consists of promising everything without ever telling in a sincere and plausible way who will pay the promises. It also consists of challenging everything that has been done to finally propose little or no the same as what we have done since 2017. Finally, it often consists in denying the difficulties inherent in reform, believing that they will be overcome only by the verb, in order to exempt themselves from any reflection on the method and consequences of the proposed measures. As a member of Parliament and of the Committee on Social Affairs and above all as rapporteur-general, I hope that, beyond these easy postures, the next few months will be devoted to resuming a rich, lively debate, why not, but above all to meeting the deadlines. What social model do we want? What path of sustainability should we choose to implement it? What new solutions in organizations will provide better protection? What improvements can be made to the implementation of the reforms already under way? I will take my part in this debate, in the committee and in other fora, but since the examination of the social security budget is over, I should like to thank you, colleagues, for the quality of our exchanges, for the sincerity of your commitment, beyond our political differences, and for your confidence: you have entrusted me with the keys to the PLFSS for two very intense years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u6	[[Smile]] It was temporary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...but also exciting!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u8	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Pierre Door spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u9	Today I speak before you for the twentieth and last time on a PLFSS, after an express examination which is a parliamentary parody. The deadlines imposed on us for examining this social security budget of nearly EUR 600 billion are unreasonable. Your majority is now reduced to validating an already outdated and worrying budget. You were pretending to present, in this PLFSS for 2022, a post-covid crisis exit trajectory, but we are reporting a new fulgurating epidemic wave... We will hardly vote on the PLFSS that the question of the relevance of the amount of the provision for a possible epidemic recovery arises. Will this amount be sufficient for the adaptation of measures to curb the fifth wave? With regard to this PLFSS for 2022, we have previously expressed our agreement on provisions that have been the subject of consensus between the two assemblies, but in the light of the debate on a new reading in this House, the Senate has taken note of the substantive political disagreements on the provisions that remain under discussion. That is why it adopted the preliminary question. The main proposals that we have made, such as those that were adopted by the Senate, are indeed being swept away. The debate is locked and it is a very curious conception of bicameralism that you are promoting. Segur's catch-up measures are not enough to stop caregivers from leaving the public hospital. According to the alert issued by the Scientific Council, 20% of beds on average would be closed in French hospitals. Although challenging these figures, the Minister of Health nevertheless admits a lack of caregivers and an increase in the number of vacancies. This is the sad reality, the health crisis has only increased the exhaustion and discouragement of staff. Our health care system is going badly and you have given up the reforms. With the law "my health 2022", you pompously claimed to review from A to Z the functioning of the health system. We're almost out of date and for the past three years, the hospital has been in a state of continuous crisis. You don't give him much perspective, but there is an urgent need to act. What about city medicine, who's in the woods? What remains of family policy, while the birth rate continues to decline? We also deplore the transfer of the family branch to the other branches. As for old age, the revalorisation of basic and supplementary retirement pensions is insufficient to compensate for inflation. Pension reform is buried – yet it was Macron's campaign promise and he believes it is a top priority. Also buried the law on autonomy and old age.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u10	We spend only 1.5 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u11	The least we can say is that the additional EUR 400 million granted or the "floor tariff" are very insufficient measures in view of the ageing of the population. However, the four-year financial trajectory presented by the Government is incompatible with the target of social debt clearance as at 31 December 2033, when the termination of the Social Debt Depreciation Fund (CADES) was postponed. On the other hand, CADES had been conceived as a transitional structure and it was not for CADES to take over the hospital debt. Beyond the gravity of the social account plunge, the sustainability of social debt and the survival of social security are at stake. The legacy you pass on to future generations is already a political mistake. Don't forget Clemenceau's warning at other times: "You will be responsible for what will follow."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u12	You're a little too!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u14	What a bitterness!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u15	Being too critical, you're no longer credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u16	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u17	We are gathered for the final reading of the last PLFSS of this legislature. Over the past five years, we have been able to measure the difficulty of this fiscal year. Three years ago, we were speaking about a text that marked a near return to the balance of social accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u18	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u19	Since then, successive crises have shown us how flexible and adaptable our social security system is to ensure that our citizens are constantly protected against any kind of risk. This must make us proud, but also involve real responsibility. The financial efforts to alleviate our health care system have been and are still considerable. Nevertheless, the social security deficit of €20.4 billion in 2022 is now structural. We are still a long way from returning to balance, but it will be necessary to work with demand to achieve this in the coming years, without repeating past mistakes, when the public hospital had become the adjustment variable of this budget. At a time when the health situation is deteriorating and uncertainty is re-emerging, the adoption of this text, which contains indescribable measures of progress, is an absolute necessity. On the purely financial side, our group welcomes the continuation of the effort to upgrade the remuneration of staff, with more than EUR 2 billion mobilised for healthcare workers, nurses or midwives. We also welcome the extension of the indexary treatment supplement to staff in medical and social institutions and services (ESMS) who accompany persons with disabilities on a daily basis. This PLFSS contains a panel of positive measures that will affect all categories of the population. The full management of contraceptives for women under 25 years of age and consultations with liberal psychologists respond to very current concerns that are urgent to address. Strengthening access to visual care by increasing the skills of orthoptists is an additional step in strengthening access to care. Parliamentarians have also strengthened this aspect in successive readings by providing for several experiments in direct access to certain health professionals. We are convinced that promoting the empowerment of all medical and paramedical professions through a flexible and supervised care path is one of the solutions to combat medical desertification. In addition, the demographic challenge of ageing must lead us to rethink our policy of supporting the loss of autonomy. For example, we would like once again to welcome the rise of the autonomous branch through concrete measures aimed, in particular, at improving the provision of home care. The creation of a national floor rate of 22 euros per hour of home intervention must enable real equity to be achieved in the provision of funding, as well as in the quality of service rendered. As we know, this public policy is based on the State and the departments, which must act together to make it efficient. It is the antithesis of Parisian jacobinism that too often prevails in our country. The work undertaken since the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 shows that co-construction with communities is working and that only in this way will we be able to meet the challenge of accompanying the loss of autonomy. Of course, we regret that we did not address these issues in a comprehensive law, but we welcome the commitment of the Deputy Minister, who has been making concrete progress for the past two years. This text also enshrines the beginnings of a reformulation of the drug policy. For many years, it has been the adjustment variable of the PLFSS. This year, the situation is a little different: less savings are required from this sector, and the text contains many articles aimed at facilitating access to innovative medicines and making certain rules on indoor pharmacies more flexible. Our group is satisfied with this, but recalls the urgent need to achieve a genuine European policy of internalising the medicine, as has been done, in a remarkable way, for the design of covid -19 vaccines. Finally, as since the beginning of the legislature, a number of simplification measures for self-employed workers are planned. It is worth recalling that our majority was the first to consistently and consistently focus on those audiences who have been left out of public policy for too long. We will decide on the version of the text resulting from the new reading in the National Assembly, since the Senate, as usual, decided last week to reject the text without considering it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will also support this last social budget of the legislature, which will enable measures to be implemented to ensure that everyone has access to rights and to just and solidarity-based social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u20	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u21	It took a global pandemic, millions of deaths and the threat of an even greater tragedy to bring us back to the essentials and put life ahead of any other kind of consideration. This crisis will have been that of our vulnerabilities, showing in particular the weakness of the hospital and the organization of our care system, which had long been put to the test. Like any crisis, it offers an opportunity to take stock and reconsider the hierarchy of choices we have made. These are the lessons offered to you, the Government and the majority, and that it was up to you to transform into proposals to build a comprehensive health policy at the service of a care society, affirming the centrality of man, the entanglement of man and nature and the need for a policy of prevention. It is also an opportunity to take stock of a quinquennium that is ending and which, in many ways, you would like to make us believe that it is starting, as the balance sheet is thin.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u22	It's a little harsh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u23	Sometimes you seemed to do it, but most often, you pretended, and you continue with this PLFSS. You're pretending about hospital reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u24	Which your government has led, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u25	There is Segur, so much the better, but it is very little, and that is not enough to meet the difficulties of the hospital, the caregivers are witnesses to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u26	If only you'd done half of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u27	No structural reform, no reform of ONDAM, no reform of pricing, no reform of governance – and unfortunately doctors continue to leave the hospital and say their disarray. Everywhere in France, you are witnessing the swinging arms, the services closing, the beds closing – 13000 since the beginning of the quinquennium – and you have learned no lessons from it, since several thousand beds have still closed during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u28	Aren't you ashamed to say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u29	You have also pretended on the medical deserts, refusing in this PLFSS each of the proposals made on many benches of this House to overcome territorial inequality in access to health. There is now a difference in life expectancy of one year and three months between a hyper-urban and a hyper-rural, whereas this difference was only three months in the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u30	It's your fault! You're the one who didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u31	You haven't done much, or so little. And when doctors come to miss in these rural and sometimes urban territories – such as the Seine-Saint-Denis – it is unnecessary to turn to the services of Laval, Lillebonne, Rennes, Moissac, Montauban, Voiron, Le Mans, Reims, Châtellerault, Bayeux, Ambert, Draguignan, Bastia, Bezannes or Aire-sur-l'Adour, where doctors do what they can but do not feel supported as they should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u32	You've destroyed everything, we're rebuilding!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u33	You have also pretended to be responsible for autonomy and dependency. And you will formulate for the next quinquennium, as part of the electoral campaign, the same promises you made five years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u34	And that we held!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u35	The fifth branch is already presented in imbalance, and the proposals you make will not – or so little – improve the supervision rate in EHPAD, to take an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u36	But if: "Change is now! »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u37	I know that for the past five years you have had a hard time with parliamentary debate and contradiction, you have had difficulty listening to the French and those who represent them. I regret it, but I see it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u38	It is with bad faith that we have trouble!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u39	You also pretended about pension reform. I don't know if we should regret it, knowing what you're preparing for us. The debate did not come to an end, not because of covid, but because, once again, of Article 49(3) and your expeditious methods. Rapid democracy is no more glorious than justice of the same name. We know what you promise the French by presenting an unbalanced social security budget. You promise bad days in the future. To the "whatever it costs" will succeed in a few months, if it came to the French the sad idea to re-elect the President of the Republic, the question of who it will cost. For the past five years, however, we know that it is essentially costing the most modest of our fellow citizens, since you never involve those who can. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] You've often seemed to do it, but most often you've pretended; This is why the Socialist and related group will not support this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u40	But when you have to find ways, you never know how!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u41	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u42	The National Assembly is called upon to take a final decision on the social security budget for 2022. In addition to being the last of the legislature, this PLFSS is part of a still uncertain health context and bears the stigma of the crisis from which we have not yet emerged. From this draft budget, we have already had the opportunity to point out the significant progress that it allows and the shortcomings that we would have wished to fill better. Our exchanges have been intense, sometimes passionate, but it is the beauty of representative democracy that allows this annual debate and the confrontation of the visions of what our social protection should be. The challenges ahead remain of an unprecedented scale: for almost two years now, France has been living at the pace of the covid-19 epidemic. In the midst of the turmoil, our social security system has played its full role as a shock absorber and has demonstrated its ability to adapt in an emergency to protect the French. This situation is not without consequences for social accounts: ONDAM for 2022 reaches unprecedented heights, while the exceptional expenditure deployed to deal with the crisis undermines the catch-up path begun in recent years. The social security deficit is expected to reach nearly EUR 22 billion by 2022 and to remain at around EUR 15 billion on a sustainable basis. The text we are looking at today will therefore not allow a return to balance. Despite this budgetary deterioration, I am pleased that we are implementing in this PLFSS the strong measures we have announced, both to better protect our citizens and to sustain our social security system. In the hospital sector, this PLFSS marks a break with the past: for the first time in years, no savings will be requested from the public hospital. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this historical inflection. We regret, however, that this moratorium does not apply to drug prices. While the measures taken to promote biosimilar development are welcome, they are still too limited and we would have liked to go even further and faster in this process. This PLFSS is also part of the continuation of the commitments made in July 2020 under the Health Security to raise the salaries of caregivers and to improve the health system. We are proud to belong to the majority who made this unprecedented investment, especially for the hospital, for far too long abandoned by public decision-makers. On this point, at first reading, we called on the Government not to forget certain professions in the medical and social sector, particularly in the field of disability. We therefore very much welcome the decision of the Government, introduced in the Senate, to extend the revalorisations granted at the end of the Segur to more than 20,000 caregivers working in the departmental disability care structures. The draft budget submitted for our approval includes another aspect that is absolutely crucial to the future of our society: that of autonomy. It is indeed an implacable demographic reality: France is ageing. First of all, it is a great opportunity, but it is also a major challenge that challenges the sustainability of our retirement system and the attention we give to our seniors. While the Group of the European People's Party deeply regrets that no legislation was adopted on the subject of old age following the creation of the fifth branch a year ago, the chapter of this PLFSS devoted to autonomy nevertheless marks an important new step, which should be welcomed. Because the residential shift is first and foremost an aspiration of the elderly themselves, we welcome the introduction of a floor rate of 22 euros per hour for home care services. It will help to reduce disparities between departments and improve the quality of service for people with disabilities. On this point, I welcome the adoption of two amendments tabled by our group, which were respectively intended to create a supplementary allocation to finance actions to improve the quality of the service provided to the user, in order to make use of the enhanced accompanying offers; and to provide the CNSA with a new mission to accompany the departmental services in the management of the services to support autonomy. I also welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by my colleague Paul Christophe in order to raise the amount of the daily allowance for the caregiver (AJPA) to the level of the SMIC and to extend the benefit to the relatives of persons whose disability or loss of autonomy, without being of particular gravity, requires regular assistance. I thank the Government for allowing this major step forward, which we can all welcome. The five minutes given to me will not allow me to be exhaustive, but I would like to mention just a few of the other great advances allowed by this text, such as the reimbursement of contraception for women up to 26 years old, the management of psychological consultations from 3 years old, or the introduction of a mandatory postnatal interview to prevent postpartum depression. These are new rights and protections for our citizens. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, the Action Together Group will fully support this bill for the financing of social security and the strong measures it provides for.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u43	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u44	As usual, the IDU and independent group will begin, in this general discussion, by denouncing the conditions for the examination of this PLFSS. The debates in new reading were thus literally dispatched, since they lasted only four hours – I don't think I'm wrong in saying that it's never seen. Several of our amendments, which had been declared inadmissible in the National Assembly, were nevertheless well considered in the Senate, sometimes even adopted. I am thinking of the sustainability of the scheme for the exemption of employers' contributions for the employment of casual workers seeking employment (TODE), the establishment of free medical zones or the abolition of double liability to the CSG and local contributions. The restrictive interpretation of the admissibility of the amendments, combined with the short time allowed for our debates, reflects the majority's view of the democratic debate. In substance, our group supports the measures taken to combat the health crisis. However, no action is envisaged to restore the balance of our social accounts: the Government confines itself to seeing the unprecedented deterioration of the public accounts, without imagining any structural reform. We cannot knowingly place the funding of our social protection on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren. You continue to be proud of the wage increases in the framework of the Ségur de la Santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u46	If these increases were necessary, we invite you to remain modest, because the credit will go above all to our children, who will have to pay the expenses they have made today, and to future governments, which I hope they will have the courage to undertake real reforms to ensure that they are funded. In addition, as my colleague Valérie Six pointed out last week during the question-and-answer session to the Government, a real shock of attractiveness is necessary for hospitals to be able to recruit more and more. The solution, as in many areas, lies in the fight against bureaucracy and over-administration. Through this PLFSS, you do not fight against the progression of medical deserts, which extend more year after year: 11% of the French population would live in a medical desert and several million of our fellow citizens would give up care due to lack of access to a doctor. More doctors need to be trained. Now, you know as I do, the transformation of a numerus clausus into numerus apertus does not solve anything at all,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u47	It still allows for a 15% increase in the number of doctors trained!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u48	... because it is not accompanied by an increase in the number of places in universities or by the number of internship offers. Twenty copies, or even twenty more students, can be handed over to the trainers, but not a hundred! So the increase you're claiming is just a decoy. Many of the professionals I interviewed in Amiens could confirm that. The training of additional doctors must also be accompanied by coercive measures for the installation of doctors, in addition to incentives for their installation in the under-funded areas – even if, in my personal capacity, I prefer incitement to coercion. [[Murmures]] Through this PLFSS, the Government makes the choice, as every year, to let the fraud of social benefits flourish, which costs every year several billion euros to social security. A study has shown this: while 67 million people live in France, our country has 75 million social insured persons. Look for the mistake! Yes! We would do well to tackle this problem in order to balance our accounts a little. This is not the only article in this PLFSS dedicated to the issue that will solve things. This fraud is done by structured groups, which loot our social protection system to the detriment of those who really need it! Through this PLFSS, the Government seals the abandonment of a genuine policy for autonomy. The creation of the fifth branch, of which you are so proud, will have been only a measure of facade, while we are facing an unprecedented demographic challenge. Also remember that it is not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u49	Yes, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u50	You are planning to recruit an additional 10,000 nursing positions in EHPAD within five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u51	They're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u52	This is much less than the 8000 additional posts advocated by Dominique Libault's report. At this rate, we would not achieve this goal until 2066! By this PLFSS, finally, the Government assumes the destructuring of family policy, on the one hand by pursuing the socialist policy aimed at confusing family policy with the policy of social minima, on the other...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u53	You agreed with this orientation in 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u54	... and, on the other hand, taking advantage of the sharp fall in the birth rate to charge funding for other social policies to the family branch. It is the High Council for the Family, Children and Age (HCFEA) which says in a report of 30 March 2021: "In terms of expenditure, there is an increasing burden of transfers to other schemes, with the family branch of social security gradually taking over expenditure previously financed from other accounts, in particular the old age branch of social security".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u55	That was part of our program!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u56	How long will this government continue to weigh its renunciations on French families? In conclusion, and because this PLFSS is more a text of renunciation than a budget reflecting a vision for France, our group will vote, as at first reading, mostly against.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u57	Some have short memories!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u58	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u59	Another ex-LaREM!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u60	The quinquennium that is coming to an end will have seen intense and lasting upheavals for our country. Have these five years, made up of crises and reforms – completed or abandoned – been an opportunity to strengthen or weaken our social model? The yellow vest movement has brutally reminded us of the scale of the social and territorial fractures that cross France and which are at the origin of a feeling of distrust towards its institutions and its leaders. In the same way, by abandoning pension reform, you have given up breaking up with an opaque and unfair system – since that was the stated objective of this reform. More broadly, questions on intergenerational solidarity have not been answered. In our aging society, a major concern remains that of caring for dependency. Our group has consistently placed support for autonomy at the top of its priorities, calling for national solidarity in the first place. Finally, strikes in hospitals and in emergency services, which mobilized all health professionals, have been a rhythm of the quinquennium. The issue of health has also emerged in the context of the major national debate, which shows that this issue is central to our citizens. Yet the answers so far are not enough. Indeed, despite the measures adopted during the quinquennium and under the previous majorities, medical desertification is worsening. It extends to all territories, questioning on a daily basis the constitutional principle of equal access to care. As the public hospital went through an unprecedented crisis, the epidemic of covid-19 brought to its climax the observation that we all stood: that of a breathless health system. For almost two years, it's been thanks to the healthcare staff that the system holds, but for how long? More broadly, the review of the last five-year social security funding bill is an opportunity to ask ourselves about our ability to meet the challenges ahead. The first, as we have said, concerns the epidemic of covid-19. From the beginning of the review of the text, our group expressed serious concern about the capacity of health institutions to cope with the anticipated epidemic recovery, especially as it is in addition to the outbreaks of influenza or bronchiolite that saturate our emergency services. At the very least, we welcome, as the Minister of Solidarity and Health invites us to examine the "first PLFSS since 2007 without savings, even hidden, for the hospital." This fact, however, speaks volumes about the long years of budgetary restraint we have experienced. This majority contributed to this: let us remember that it voted 4 billion euros in savings last year, in the midst of a health crisis. It was more than time to break with that logic. Therefore, the increase in ONDAM in 2021 and then in 2022 was necessary to take into account the projected expenditures associated with the covid -19 epidemic. It was also essential to extend the salaries of medical and social staff, whether paid by health insurance or by the departments. It was necessary to put an end to this inequity. It is imperative that the work be continued in order to extend these advances to all those who are still excluded from them. But we repeat this: reclamations will not suffice to respond to the crisis of vocations. While there has been a lot of hope in the announcements made by the Ségur de la santé, the daily lives of staff in the field have unfortunately not changed: practitioners and nurses continue to miss, while beds and services continue to close. Another challenge has been largely ignored: that of autonomy. The fifth branch, recently created, remains insufficient, as the population ages and the jobs of the link suffer from a crisis of attractiveness. Efforts have been made in this text, but we continue to believe that in the absence of a dedicated bill, yet promised, we are missing a decisive opportunity to reform our policy in favour of autonomy and dependence. I asked in introduction: what is the future of our social model? Today, uncertainty prevails. Our social accounts are permanently weakened, with a stagnant deficit of around 15 billion euros until 2025. What room for manoeuvre will we have in the coming months and years to sustain our social protection tools? How can we finance our health insurance, our rising health spending or our policy of support for autonomy? Unfortunately, all these issues remain unresolved, at a decisive moment that requires strengthening our social cohesion and guaranteeing the principles of national solidarity, social justice and redistribution. The most recent draft law on the financing of social security does not allow for a precise response, and the Freedom and Territory Group will retain its majority vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u61	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u62	We are now starting the final reading of the Social Security Financing Bill. A definitive but also expeditious reading, with this tenacious feeling that once again – again too much – this funding bill ignores the real needs of the French. It is in many respects consistent with the accounting idea of a budget. If we were to write you down on your talent as an accountant, you would have a good chance of passing the exam hand-in-hand. But since it is about the health of the French, and finally the ability to finance our system of care and social security, we hear in watermark, in your arguments and presentations, article after article, amendment after amendment, the injunction that you send to the French: "Haut les mains! It's a holdup! » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The context of the last twenty-two months should have shed light on you, encouraging you to remove the ultraliberal eyes that allow you, text after text, to move forward without worrying about the expectations of our fellow citizens or seeing disarray. But it sometimes leads to anger, as we can see in the overseas departments and territories where, after years of abandonment, you send the forces of law and order without solving the shortage of caregivers, nor repair hospitals to make them functional and operational – let's not talk about access to water – nor try to understand the mistrust that you have been constantly feeding. Over the past twenty-two months, we have highlighted the shortcomings of our psychiatric care facilities, whose number of beds has been divided by two in the last thirty years, and at the same time have demonstrated the enormous needs of the population, and in particular of our children and adolescents. To answer this question, you frame restraint and isolation and respond to all the proposals, all the amendments, tirelessly and on a regular basis: "The rapporteur's opinion: unfavourable. Minister's opinion: unfavorable. Who's for it, who's against it? The amendment was rejected. Without even a look for this assembly that the Minister of Solidarity and Health decided to desert... In the past twenty-two months, after our warnings and reports from the beginning of the legislature, the suffering of our caregivers and residents in EHPAD, the first victims not of the virus, but of your guilty inaction: by doing nothing, you have succeeded in transforming institutional abuse into government abuse. What could we have expected in the face of such a situation? A law on old age and autonomy? Missed again! We finally end up with a poor article that you are trying to sell as a revolution and that is ultimately just a abandonment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u63	A "poor" article at 1.5 billion euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u64	However, proposals have been made. But the answers are always the same: "The rapporteur's opinion: unfavorable. Minister's opinion: unfavorable. Who's for it, who's against it? The amendment was rejected. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u65	Oh! That's a good summary!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u66	These twenty-two months have seen the profits of the pharmaceutical industry increase in proportion to the mistrust it inspires of our fellow citizens. It was a historic opportunity to launch a public drug hub, which we had proposed to you at one of our parliamentary niches, and to decide on the stocks of medicines to put an end to the policy of the tense flow in a context of importing medicines that makes it absurd and mortifying. But you have an answer to everything: 'The rapporteur's opinion: unfavorable. Minister's opinion: unfavorable. Who's for it, who's against it? The amendment was rejected. » Over the past twenty-two months, you have had twice the opportunity to correct the shot on the occasion of the last two PLFSS. But on the contrary, you are already planning forecasts of a deterioration in the provision of care in your planned multi-year evolution over the next four years. Don't make us believe that your Segur is magical: health professionals don't believe in magic or your Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u67	All right? That's not what they tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u68	You say you're taking back some of the hospital debt, but at the same time, you're planning to dry it over and over again. You say you invest in state-of-the-art equipment, but by abandoning local hospitals that lack resources, personnel and equipment. You say you will train more caregivers, but as a result of their departure, we no longer have resources to devote to training. You announce the creation of 10,000 jobs in four years when 180,000 people left their own. Madam Deputy Minister, you just told me that you had put millions...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u69	Billions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u70	But it took 8 billion euros to hire 210,000 caregivers in the EHPADs in order to end institutional abuse...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u71	Do you have them?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u72	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Yes, Madam Deputy Minister, we have them: with the proceeds of the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF) – if you hadn't removed it – in 2018 and 2019, you could stop institutional abuse in EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u73	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u74	Whenever we propose directions, plans, an ambitious and proactive policy, you reply, as you have just done: "The rapporteur's opinion: unfavorable. Minister's opinion: unfavorable. Who's for it, who's against it? The amendment was rejected. » A bill necessarily includes consensus clauses; We have voted a few. But we can only be opposed to the spirit of the bill that you are sending today as a formality, a mandatory exercise, or even a burden of parliamentary construction, as it goes against our conception of a system of care and social security. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] On the whole of this text, we tell you: "Health system opinion: unfavorable. Opinion of the Members of the European Parliament: unfavourable. We're so that it changes; We are against this text. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u75	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u76	We were world champions, we're on the trailer. At the dawn of 2000, France had the best health care system in the world according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification. Twenty-one years later, our country clings painfully to the eleventh position. This downgrading owes a great deal to the blows at the public hospital, which has become the preferred testing ground for privatization and new management. It is, of course, due to the reduction in health spending in the light of the real needs, which you have continued under the quinquennium by imposing on the disease branch a plan of savings of 18 billion euros in total, of which 4 billion will be borne by health institutions. This decline is also due to the maintenance of activity pricing, forcing hospitals to produce more and more acts in order to keep themselves at afloat, at the cost of a deterioration in working conditions and a exhaustion of health-care workers. Finally, this weakening is due to the general application of the rule "no stock hospital, for a flow hospital", which has led institutions to reduce hospitalisation times for patients, to merge hospital structures and to close beds in the name of the outpatient turn – 13330 beds abolished since 2017, 5700 just for the year 2020, not to mention beds closed in number to the bottling, this autumn, due to lack of staff. This commercial vision of health, this commodification of care, this impoverishment of public service have led to a real crisis in staff that the measures of a health segur that runs after the train have failed to defuse. Flags are still attached to the grids at Martigues Hospital. Our public health system is now more fragile than before the outbreak. Caregivers continue to shout their anger and to undergo unbridled rhythms. Some turn to the private sector in the hope of better horizons. Others simply throw the sponge away, because they didn't commit to it. Therefore, there is no point in bragging by explaining that no cost-saving measures are imposed on hospitals in the 2022 budget. This is the minimum we can expect from you after three years of budgetary rigour and a health crisis to which our health care system was not prepared. The way in which you have managed this crisis in which we are still plunged is far from being proven in terms of public health, as we have seen in recent days in several overseas territories. The study of the scientific interest group EPI-PHARE indicates a decrease in the overall vaccination of children and adolescents since autumn 2020. We're still suspended from Big Pharma's goodwill and dividends when we should see a public drug hub take shape. Beyond health policy, it is the entire social security building that you have derailed, damaged in the course of this mandate with a two-pronged plan. You first attacked him at his base by questioning the contribution financing. You have removed wage contributions to transfer them to the CSG, a government hand-held tax paid primarily by households. You desocialized overtime. You have multiplied the employer contribution exemption schemes, which amount to €70 billion – compared to €46 billion on arrival – without assessing them in terms of their employment effectiveness. You have put an end to the principle of full compensation by the State for these same exemptions. As a result, social security is no longer able to self-finance itself, which will undoubtedly justify future recovery measures. You have also damaged social security in its ability to meet social needs. Pensions such as social benefits were a time planed before the yellow vest crisis and the epidemic forced you to review your calendar. You have given up financing the loss of autonomy to meet your needs, limiting yourself to creating a fifth branch in the form of a slogan. It is in this context, and at the end of the race, that you launch a test ball with a great social security project, aimed at extending the scope of the care reimbursed by the public authorities. On paper, it could make you dream. We have long defended "100% social security" to end the non-use of care and inequalities of care. In our view, social security deserves a new ambition, strengthened and socialized funding and re-appropriation by workers, users and users. But is this really your project? The political acts of this quinquennium do not give rise to any optimism from this point of view. Moreover, the press has already indicated that this project would be buried – too expensive, too complicated, too costly for companies, too subversive for market forces. One last confession in the form of renunciation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] No more doubt: the majority chose their side. It's not about health, it's about the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u77	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u78	We are meeting today for the final reading of the PLFSS for 2022, the last of our terms of reference. It is with conviction that the La République en marche group will vote for this text, because it is more than ever the one of the commitments that have been made.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u79	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u80	The balance of social security remains long-term and massively affected by the crisis even though it is less than expected, in particular due to a strong economic recovery. Yes, our policy of support is effective. The ONDAM 2021 was increased by €1.7 billion during the parliamentary shuttle due to the additional costs associated with the epidemic and the upgrading measures resulting from the Laforcade agreements. We continue to support the health care system with this ambitious PLFSS, as evidenced by the 3.8% increase in ONDAM, excluding crisis spending, and 4.1% of funding for the hospital. This text provides for the continuation of the Segur's commitments and an extension of the latter to other professionals, in particular those in the medical and social sector or midwives. On 22 November, the Government signed a memorandum of understanding with the majority of representative trade union organizations, bringing the upgrading of midwives to 500 euros net per month, reaffirming their medical status and creating the sixth year of training expected. In addition to the 8 billion already committed, EUR 2 billion of salary revalorisations have been made, representing a total of 10 billion revalorisations financed within ONDAM. This PLFSS is also marked by strong measures for access to care and prevention. I am thinking of taking care of contraception up to the age of 25, preventing obesity in children or testing HIV without a prescription, but also of extending the tasks of the fund to combat addictions beyond psychoactive substances alone. On the other hand, the possibility for orthoptists to perform visual checks or prescribe visual aids, or the possibility for patients to go directly to the massager-kinesistherapist or to the orthophonist, in certain departments, in an experimental setting, or the opening of the first term to nurses of advanced practice will improve access to care. We must continue to do so. Let us also welcome the entry into the common law of telesurveillance, with a definition of its overall architecture and, by 2022, the introduction of a flat rate charge for telesurveillance activities. The text foresees a series of strong measures in favour of the pharmaceutical and medical devices sector, to make France the first European nation in the field of medical innovation and a sovereign country in the field of health. In this regard, it fulfils the commitments made by the President of the Republic at the Strategic Council of Health Industries in June 2021. After the creation, by the law of August 2020, of the fifth branch of social security, dedicated to support for autonomy, a new step is taken with this PLFSS which introduces structural reforms for the sector. Thus, the text reinforces the residential shift through ambitious measures to keep elderly people at home in loss of autonomy – I am thinking here of the introduction of a national floor rate of 22 euros per hour and of the quality of 3 euros per hour. The EHPAD's resources are also strengthened by more than 300 million euros by 2025. This PLFSS, which some assume not to vote, finally includes measures in favour of purchasing power, with easier access to complementary health care and the strengthening of the public maintenance service, as well as provisions to neutralise the effects of the crisis on self-employed workers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This PLFSS is serious, ambitious and forward-looking. We will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u81	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u82	I put the bill to the vote, as it follows from the National Assembly's re-reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u83	By hand, 500 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u84	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u85	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u86	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution in favour of Taiwan's association with the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums (No 4271).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u87	In the general debate, Mr François de Rugy spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u88	Before speaking of the substance of this motion for a resolution, of which I am the initiator as chairman of the France-Taiwan international study group and which I defend on behalf of all its signatories from different groups, I would like to make a comment on the meaning of the resolutions. When I was President of the National Assembly, I had met all the former Presidents of the Republic from the perspective of institutional developments. And I am reminded today of what President Giscard d'Estaing had told me, whose point of view was doubly interesting, since he had successively served as Head of State and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of our Assembly. Our Constitution, he argued in substance, certainly reserves a pre-eminent role for the executive, and especially for the President of the Republic, in the definition and implementation of our foreign policy; But Parliament, he continued, must be fully aware that by adopting resolutions, without instructing the Government, it has a role to play in France's foreign policy. Its expression strengthens a position and informs our international partners that the values, principles or policies followed by the country are not mere diplomatic postures, but rather the translation of a fully democratic political will. The power to adopt parliamentary resolutions in the field of international relations, pleaded the former president, also gives the national representative the opportunity to signify to the world that when a broad majority is expressed, France's positions on the international scene correspond to profound choices, shared and therefore most often independent of the political majorities of the moment. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT]] That is why I want to welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution that we are considering is trans-partisan: I wanted from the outset to involve all Members and all groups, and I thank the presidents of seven groups – the Republic on the move, the Republicans, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, Socialists and related democrats, Acting together, IDU and independents, and Liberties and Territories – for agreeing to co-signatories. The approach remains quite unusual in the House, but it seems to me, given the subject and the stakes, particularly appropriate. A similar approach was taken in the Senate and the Senate resolution was adopted almost unanimously. The adoption of the resolution in the House will make Parliament's position strong enough to be heard. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to recognize Taiwan's constructive role in international organizations and multilateral relations, in an Asia-Pacific context that we know is unique; It is also in this context that we speak out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u89	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u90	Over the years, Taiwan has evolved both in its domestic policy and in its relations with the various international bodies. The idea of this motion for a resolution is first and foremost to involve Taiwan more closely in the work of WHO, the World Health Organization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u91	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u92	...but also to international approaches in other areas, for which the full cooperation of all actors is a condition for success: in climate matters with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), in security matters with the International Criminal Police Organisation, better known as Interpol, and finally in the aeronautics field with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). Under various names, Taiwan is already a member of several international organizations, such as the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). What we propose would therefore represent the continuation of these advances in the international field...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u94	... and an additional contribution to multilateralism, even as the crises we are going through, and in the first place the health crisis and its consequences, demonstrate every day a little more the necessity of the coordinated international approach to confront and overcome them. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT]] On 25 November 2020, heard by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, recalled that "we were in favour of Taiwan participating in the meetings of several international bodies, including the WHO, because it is essential that all actors who can take part in the fight against pandemics, including the covid-19, do so". The present motion for a resolution encourages the Government to do so. That is why I invite you to adopt it broadly: by giving it your support through your vote, you will help to strengthen this multilateral approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u95	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u96	Today we are considering a motion for a resolution of clear importance and solemnity, as it aims to involve Taiwan in the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums. It may be recalled that although Taiwan lost its membership of WHO in 1972 for the benefit of the People's Republic of China, it was able to collaborate in the work of various international organizations, including WHO as an observer from 2009 to 2016, until the election of Ms. Tsai Ing-wen as President, although she had stated that she wished to respect the status quo, i.e. the "one country, two systems" principle. Since 2016, despite the global health crisis, Taiwan's participation in the work of these international institutions is no longer allowed, even though their interest is both general and global. Yet Taiwan has some legitimacy to participate in these organizations. First of all, it is a country with an area of approximately 36,000 square kilometres, equivalent to that of the Netherlands, with a population of more than 23 million, which is comparable to that of Australia. In economic terms, Taiwan cannot be ignored either: it is the twenty-first economy of the world and the thirty-sixth tourist destination in the world, and it produces 84% of the most sophisticated semiconductors used on the planet, on which much of the world's industry depends. So it has a lot to teach us and on multiple tracks. Taiwan's management of the covid crisis has been remarkable and praised throughout the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u98	Indeed, based on her experience with SARS and H1N1 viruses, she was able to react quickly and in a particularly adequate way from the beginning, from the first Asian wave of the covid, then to the successive waves. To date, the country has only recorded 16500 cases. Taiwan was so successful in the fight against covid that, while France was struggling to mobilize to make fabric masks, it offered more than 54 million surgical masks to eighty different countries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have much to learn from Taiwan, which unfortunately accounts for nearly 120,000 deaths, and 108783 cases per million inhabitants instead of 701 per million inhabitants in Taiwan. It is a pity that Taiwan's warnings and information on the health crisis, as well as its experience, have remained a dead letter when they could have made the world a step ahead of the pandemic if only Taiwan had been able to participate in the work of WHO.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u100	However, it is not only the health crisis that Taiwan's voice needs to be heard. Thus, as a major tourist destination and commercial player, its support and participation in the fight against transnational crime in the framework of Interpol could prove very useful. Moreover, with two internationally known airlines, China Airlines and EVA Air, it would seem natural for it to participate in the discussions on aviation security and navigation services under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organization. Similarly, in order to be able to cope with the major challenge of the 21st century of climate change, it seems unreasonable to support the exclusion of the 21st world economy and the 16th exporter of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. This is the challenge of multilateralism that France has always been committed to defending through its diplomatic action: the sharing and sharing of different information, opinions and experiences in the public interest. That is why this resolution will give even more strength to France's position, which is in favour of Taiwan participating in the work of the international institutions I have mentioned. I would also like to recall that Taiwan is a model of democracy and freedom, and this in a strategic area of the globe since this country is located precisely in the indo-pacific space that President Emmanuel Macron described as one of the priorities of his diplomatic action and which happens to be the scene of many power games on the part of state superpowers. I stress that the institutions referred to in this motion for a resolution allow the participation of non-State entities whose intervention is useful to their mission, and that no one can consider Taiwan's participation to be unnecessary for them. Therefore, the motion for a resolution that we are discussing today obviously has a strong symbolic significance. It is indeed a beautiful symbol that the national representation, by a very large majority, decides to support the principle of Taiwan's participation in the work of international organisations. This constructive approach does not call into question France's constant position with regard to China,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u101	From a waullist, it's strange!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the LR groups and on several benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT]] ... and it is part of the continuity of the long-standing relations between France and Taiwan, our country being the one of the countries of Europe which has the closest cooperation with it. In supporting this motion for a resolution, we therefore affirm a balanced position that is in the honour of our country, our diplomacy and the voice that France has in the world; It is a just fight on the international stage for multilateralism. That is why the Republican Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u103	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u104	The agenda of the public meeting invites us to discuss the possibility of involving Taiwan more widely in the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums. In this connection, the motion for a resolution presented today at the initiative of François de Rugy, co-signed by the majority of parliamentary groups, must enable national representation to support the actions carried out in this direction by the French Government. The challenges that will have to be met tomorrow will require more than ever global responses and enhanced international solidarity: it therefore seems most appropriate that we reconsider Taiwan's participation in international organisations. The health crisis which has struck us and which continues to plague us today has shown us a great deal: to exclude Taiwan from multilateral cooperation for a longer period would only be to harm the interests of the international community, even though the archipelago has much to teach us. Based on its experience with SARS and H1N1, this country is now a key player in health diplomacy. In the context of the crisis of the covid-19, it was thus demonstrated by its extremely rapid and effective management of the pandemic: for proof, in the year 2020, the territory recorded only a little more than a thousand contaminations and a dozen deaths, making the Taiwanese example a reference. Moreover, the participation of the nineteenth world economy in the fight against climate change or organised crime could be beneficial. Taiwan is already participating in several international organizations, such as the WTO or APEC, and was involved in WHO's work between 2009 and 2016. In addition, it should be noted that, despite a complex state status, Taiwan has become a fully-fledged diplomatic power over the decades. Although no French embassy is present, France has a diplomatic representation on the spot through the French Institute of Taipei. Today, while multilateralism appears to be the only response to the global challenges we face, we could only benefit from Taiwan's wider association with international cooperation. It is primarily a question of defending the values of respect for international law and the rejection of expansionism. By proposing to involve Taiwan in the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums, we strongly denounce all the steps that give priority to cooperation and hegemony over dialogue. As tensions between Taiwan and Beijing continue to grow, the role of France, but also of Europe, is now to stand against any hegemonic will. Recently, the European Union has therefore taken strong positions in favour of Taiwan's enhanced participation in the work of international organisations: on 21 October last, the European Parliament adopted a recommendation to strengthen the Union's ties with the island and to embark on an investment agreement; On 29 October, the Taiwanese Foreign Minister visited Europe for an unprecedented visit; Finally, for the first time, a delegation from the Special Committee of the European Parliament on misinformation and foreign interference in democratic processes was sent to Taipei on 2 November for three days. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM, LR, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT groups]] In view of the fact that this motion for a resolution would make it possible to fully integrate France into this European dynamic, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats is particularly in favour of its adoption by national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u105	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u106	We are meeting today to consider a motion for a resolution that has been signed by several parliamentary groups in this House. It calls for support for Taiwan's participation in the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums. At a time when multilateralism was being systematically attacked by continental powers that called into question the liberal consensus and the international institutions born in the post-World War II era, it was essential to defend on foot all initiatives aimed at strengthening it and proving its usefulness and relevance. The symbol, but above all the stake that Taiwan now represents in the determination of a positive solution to restore constructive relations between China and the United States for decades to come, call for special attention to the situation and fate of this island. We must facilitate a peaceful settlement of this issue while preserving democracy. To achieve this, we must be firm on our principles and encourage the development of multilateralism around the world. Taiwan has many assets. With a population of nearly 23.5 million, this example of democracy in Asia is the nineteenth world economy and has more than 110 diplomatic representations abroad. In this context, she has already participated, between 2009 and 2016, in the World Health Assembly, the parliamentary body of WHO. It is therefore an exemplary democracy that is very active at the international level. It also has a very extensive expertise, which the world should benefit from, in the management of pandemics, including covid-19, as shown by the number of deaths attributable – eleven – to the pandemic and the only 1,062 cases recorded for 23.5 million people. The Taiwanese model should be shared internationally. According to the health care index 2021 published by the Numbeo website, Taiwan is ranked top for the third consecutive year. During the epidemic, it has also demonstrated its strengths in medicine and research and development, and has continuously notified the elements related to the covid crisis through the mechanism of the international health regulation, but this information has not been taken into account to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u107	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u108	As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution, "the removal from Taiwan of WHO-led reflections and actions is thus detrimental to the interests of the international community". At the two meetings of the World Health Assembly in May and November 2020, US, Japanese, Canadian, Australian, New Zealand, French, British, German, Danish, Dutch, Swedish, and more than 1,700 parliamentarians from over eighty countries publicly called on WHO to include Taiwan. It would be desirable, to the extent that the statutes of international organisations allow – and knowing that some integrate non-state entities into their work without prejudice to the rights of Member States – to involve Taiwan in certain multilateral organisations and forums. This could be the case for the World Health Assembly and the World Health Organisation, but also for the Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, because of its key position and the importance of aviation safety, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with Taiwan committed to making its contribution, or Interpol. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] In terms of its expertise, particularly in the area of health, Taiwan's participation in those organizations would not only benefit the interests of the international community, but also contribute to the development of multilateralism and harmony among nations. That is the meaning of this resolution, which the Socialist and related groups will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u109	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u110	First of all, I would like to thank the international study group for allowing us to consider this motion for a resolution and to highlight this subject in the House. The fact that the text was signed in a trans-party manner by the national representative demonstrates the French will to strengthen our ties with Taiwan. The motion for a resolution aims to correct the situation by publicly supporting the efforts of French diplomacy in favour of Taiwan's participation in the World Health Assembly of the World Health Organisation and the Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, but also in other multilateral cooperation forums, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, as well as in Interpol. As we go through a fifth wave of covid-19 contamination and the omicron variant has just emerged, it is important for the international community to re-establish Taiwan's participation in the preservation of human health at a global level. Because yes, we are in favour of recovery. Indeed, the authorities of the People's Republic of China had accepted Taiwan's participation in the work of the WHO for several years, believing that this competition did not contravene their national policy, which has as its ultimate goal reunification. Unfortunately, Beijing's position changed in 2016, following the election and entry into office of Ms. Tsai Ing-wen. We cannot ignore the performance of Taiwan, which has only 848 pandemic deaths and 16554 cases recorded for 23.5 million people. This is not only due to its insularity: the government has been able to develop, with the success we know, emergency mechanisms to combat epidemics.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u111	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u112	In addition, involving Taiwan in the fight against climate change and organised crime could only be of benefit to the international community, as it is now the nineteenth world economy. We have a lot to learn from Taiwan and we have a lot to gain by continuing to work with this country. It is in this sense that the French authorities have regularly taken steps within the international fora concerned to obtain their consent to Taiwan's participation, certainly with observer status, but with access to information and reflections in order to produce a useful effect. The motion for a resolution is therefore intended as an endorsement and encouragement to our diplomacy to continue its joint interventions with other Powers. We therefore have reason to respectfully believe that the People's Republic of China could, without changing its substantive positions, once again accept the collaboration of Taipei's representatives at the WHO annual meeting and, therefore, the concrete tools for global health cooperation discussed therein.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u113	What a neocolonial spirit!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will give its full support to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u115	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u116	In the context of growing tensions between China and Taiwan in recent weeks, we are meeting today to discuss the motion for a resolution in favour of Taiwan's association with the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums. This motion for a resolution is welcome, because with the recent dispatch of a dozen fighter jets by Beijing to put pressure on the island that he considers his province, we are witnessing a new phase of intimidation manoeuvres that is part of a highly tense situation between Beijing and Taipei since 2016. This conflict dates back to 1949, when Mao Zedong's communists overturned the Chinese nationalist regime that took refuge in Taiwan.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u117	They defeated the Japanese!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u118	Since then, China has regarded the island as a separatist province and wishes to recover it in its giron, willingly or forcefully. But in fact Taiwan has all the characteristics of a state. It is a delimited territory, inhabited by a population governed by autonomous political power. Today it is a democracy, the twenty-first world economy according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and it maintains quasi-diplomatic relations with many countries through representational offices. It is worth pointing out that Taiwan is one of the only two major Asian states with a democratic government, and the only one whose change of government has been made through the ballot box. The series of reforms introduced over the past 25 years has changed the island from a one-party regime to one of the most dynamic democracies in Asia. His model of dealing with the epidemic has also been hailed throughout the world, as the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution rightly points out. The reputation of the Taiwanese model is deserved: as of March 23, 2021, the island had recorded only ten deaths related to the disease, for a population equivalent to that of Australia, that is, nearly 24 million inhabitants. This departure from WHO's thinking and actions is, in fact, a great loss for the international community. It is not normal that, to date, this country is not part of international organizations based on a trans-party principle. The resolution therefore seems to be moving in the right direction, publicly supporting the efforts of French diplomacy in favour of Taiwan's participation in the WHO World Health Assembly. France supports this approach, as the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, has repeatedly pointed out. In this respect, the major international organizations have provided, in the diversity of their statutes, for participation in their work as separate entities of the Member States, in various terminology, with a view to increasing the reach and scope of their actions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and LT groups]] It should also be noted that, through its various statutes, Taiwan is already a member of several international organizations, such as the WTO, the Asian Development Bank, the International Olympic Committee and Economic Cooperation for Asia-Pacific. As a full diplomatic power, it has a dense network of 110 posts abroad. The expansion of its capacity to participate in all international organizations and global forums is thus a constructive step that will send a strong signal to the world. That is why the independent IDU Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u119	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u120	Taiwan's participation in the work of international organisations and in global forums, as called for in the motion for a resolution, is very much expected. Taiwan has become an indispensable link to the global security system. Its continued exclusion from Interpol undermines global efforts to combat terrorism, drug trafficking, telecom fraud, cybercrime and other new forms of transnational crime, endangering the integrity and effectiveness of the international security network. Taiwan's participation in ICAO is also a matter of aviation safety. On the other hand, Taiwan has the capacity, the will and should therefore have the right to contribute to efforts to ensure sustainable development for our planet by integrating into the international mechanisms for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Taiwan has recognized expertise in many areas, which the international community must be able to benefit from as quickly as possible. The coronavirus epidemic has brought it to the fore. Taiwan is one of the few countries that has succeeded in putting in place the only policy that effectively fights coronavirus – testing, tracing, isolating, protecting – because it deployed it from the first day, without going through coercion. This was achieved with the confidence of its 23 million inhabitants. As early as December 31, 2019, the government of Taiwan – building on its experiences with SARS in 2003 and H1N1 in 2009 – alerted WHO to the possibility of human-to-human transmission of the virus that appeared in Wuhan, without being heard, meaning that the removal from Taiwan of WHO-led reflections and actions continues to harm the interests of the international community. The longer the time passes and the more evidence accumulates, establishing that Wuhan's virology institute was working on gain-of-function experiments under very inadequate biosecurity conditions. Worse still, economic and commercial sanctions are being imposed on countries that formally request an independent investigation into the origins of the covid-19. This is the case for Australia, against which coercive economic measures were taken by China in 2020 concerning sensitive products. France, through the words of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, Bruno Le Maire, in the Financial Times, tries to explain that the United States would like to face China, when the European Union would like to dialogue with it, forgetting that there is a gulf between desires and reality. Our exchanges are taking place at a time when tensions around Taiwan in the China Sea and in the Air Defence Identification Zone are reaching a record level. On 16 November, Mr Zhang Ming, the Chinese ambassador to the European Union, made it very clear about Taiwan: "If there are developments, it is only in the fact that the Chinese will to achieve the complete reunification of our country continues to strengthen. He then hammered: "It seems that some Europeans underestimate the aspirations of the Chinese for such reunification. Let us remember that as of January 3, 2018, 7,000 soldiers were gathered for Xi Jinping's wishes and that 4000 Chinese military sites were connected to listen to his speech. His words were again unambiguous: "Here I give my orders. The army, at all levels, must strengthen military training and prepare for war. We must impose a martial spirit and not be afraid of trials or death. » For those still in doubt in early October 2021, Taiwanese defence minister Chiu Kuo-cheng warned that Beijing would have the capacity to carry out a large-scale invasion of Taiwan by 2025. For Mathieu Duchâtel, Asian expert at the Institut Montaigne, "China will seek to test the American and Taiwanese determination to resist, while continuing to prepare for the great offensive. [...] It can only achieve this by creating crisis situations. It is therefore not a question of overbidding, but of strengthening our deterrent capabilities, because neither should we be mistaken about the intentions of the People's Republic of China towards the rest of the world, in order to impose a new world order and a new model of society. It is not just two powers that confront each other, whether you like it or not, but two models, one of which is cold in the back and has Xinjiang as its laboratory. However, France and the European Union continue to put these two models at the same level, trying to explain that the only challenge facing us would be not to depend on each other. As Taiwan's president Tsai Ing-wen asks, let us not be afraid to resist the Chinese Communist Party and draw our red lines. Through Taiwan's destiny, it is ours that we write. Taiwan is a model of advanced democracy, as highlighted by the Freedom House platform, and on which we must take an example. Everything that can strengthen peaceful cooperation with Taiwan is of course more than vital. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM and Dem groups and on several benches of the LR group]] If the Senate had already adopted a similar resolution a few months ago, it was time for the National Assembly to do so in turn. Not only is this essential, but it can only be the first step in a process of resistance that we need to engage in. It is about the future of Taiwan, of course, but also about our future to all. Let us not be afraid to say "I am Taiwan".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u121	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u122	I oppose this resolution and will state the reasons for it as succinctly as possible. You put forward two arguments in favour of this resolution, which aims to extend the recognition of Taiwan as a member of the WHO, ICAO, UNFCCC and the International Civil Protection Organization (IOCP), i.e. the partial return to Taiwan of the constituent elements of a nation-state.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u123	An observer state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u124	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Taiwan is a Chinese province and, since 1964, at the initiative of General de Gaulle, France is in the position that there is only one China, whose capital is Beijing. That's my position. I don't know how this province will return to China as a whole. I hope, like all of you, that it will be through peaceful and concerted means: nothing more, nothing less. But, since you have put forward the current context of rising pressure, you would not, intellectually, honestly be able to say that this context is the fact of Beijing without recognizing any of the countless provocations of the United States of America in this sector of the world. We don't have the same vision of the thing, bear to hear my arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u125	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u126	We do not gain anything, in the particular context in which we are, to aggravate tensions. The opposite is true: we must do everything we can to defuse them.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u127	Who's causing it?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u128	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] At this very moment, it has just been said in this rostrum that this recognition was intended to create deterrent measures against Beijing. If you think you're going to dissuade Beijing from anything with such methods, it's that you don't know anything about China!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u129	You're a submissive! Submitted to China!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u130	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] [[Same movement]] China, in this case, must be treated with the respect and delicacy that France has always accorded to this region of the world and to the special circumstances of Taiwan's creation. If the context justifies something, it is that we are not going to add to the tensions in this area, especially not nine days before an international meeting of so-called democracies is held at the initiative of the United States of America, with democrats like Bolsonaro, Duarte and how many others of the same nature, and where Taiwan is invited for the first time. What the United States of America is looking for is to create a cold war atmosphere against China by taking the pretext of Taiwan. This cold war atmosphere won't be worth anything. The French have nothing to do in such a story, except to look for ways of appeasement. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] [[Same movements]] That's the context. Then you mention Taiwan's health performance, in the fight against covid. I think our compatriots will be happy to hear that you support such methods. For my part, I do not, because Taiwan has created a database next to which the sanitary pass is a sweet joke. This database allows for day-to-day monitoring of any person who has been contaminated and for police intervention if they put their phones on aircraft mode. If that's the method you're advocating against contamination, have the courage to say that's what you want in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u131	Amalgamation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u132	I don't think one of you wants to. Amnesty International describes these practices as "mass surveillance" and states that "the government has given little detail on its use of this platform."
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u133	The Little Red Book!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u134	No, it's not the Little Red Book, keep your insults for you! I defend the position of France, that of de Gaulle in 1964, which did not read the Little Red Book. Your attitudes are unbearable. You don't tolerate criticism. Go to the cold war with the United States of America!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u135	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u136	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It's a mistake for France. We have nothing to gain from this confrontation, and I say it without any particular animosity for the people of Taiwan. What you want is to get into a context of confrontation, and that's what I don't want. France is an independent power, which has nothing to do with the instructions given by the United States of America. In 1964, alone against the rest of the world, France had recognized China, but today you are afraid because the United States of America is asking you to join the procession of those who are making threats against popular China – simply because it is popular...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u137	Ah, that's it: China is "popular"!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u138	...and that it is the world's first economic power and threatens the hegemony of the United States of America. You make a mistake, colleagues, a double mistake, using the arguments of multipartyism. There is no multiparty system in Taiwan, because it is not a nation-state. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In conclusion, I share the line of all those in the world, as you know, who do not recognize Taiwan, because there are only sixteen countries that do. I am in favour of peaceful ambiguity, namely: we do nothing and wait for things to be settled between Chinese. You guys have nothing to do with this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u139	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u140	It got out of hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u141	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u142	This resolution calls on the Government to take action to integrate Taiwan into the World Health Assembly, ICAO, ICPO and UNFCCC. The argument is very interesting, as it reveals an asymmetrical and utilitarian relationship to international law as well as to multilateral organizations. However, you are raising an interesting point about multilateralism: it is unfortunately true that not all peoples are represented in international organizations, which creates real zones of exclusion from international law on Earth. That was the case with Palestine or Western Sahara, whose peoples lived in territories recognized by law but disputed, and those peoples were hardly represented in international forums. This is a real problem, and we agree with you on this point, because peace and security can only be global. As Bertrand Badie, a great thinker of international relations, says: "We are entering a world where security is no longer national, but global. The security we need is not divided, it is not ascribed, it is not imputed, it belongs to us all, and we are the defenders and protectors of all for all. It is, therefore, by protecting all peoples, by providing them with health, social, economic and cultural protections that peace and security will come. It is only in this way that the covid will be defeated. From the point of view of the Communist deputies, this clumsy resolution, if not sibyllin, stops in the middle of the ford. If you are really being followed, you should consistently propose extending Taiwan's representation to all international organisations, except for the recognition in this disputed territory of an independent state. If you do not say anything about it, you know the history and the present and you know that a resolution, if it is not without effect, will not bring a solution. I say this by reaffirming all our friendship with the people of Taiwan. Under the penalty of consenting to lose and weaken, a State must have only one compass when it comes to managing international relations. It is international law, it is the resolutions of the United Nations, they reflect a diplomatic compromise and, often, a political balance, even if it is fragile. Or else, we must have very strong reasons and the conviction to open up a path. In Resolution 2758, which organizes the links between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, the United Nations decides, inter alia, "the restoration of the People's Republic of China in all its rights and the recognition of the representatives of its Government as the only legitimate representatives of China to the United Nations". The long-standing conflict between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China is therefore supposed to be resolved, under international law, by a single-State solution, which France has so far supported with its application of the concept of "one State, two systems". The desire for Taiwan to sit as such in several international forums therefore runs counter to international law, a fortiori in the UNFCCC, which de facto links member countries to the United Nations. Perhaps you find Taiwan's current status unfair or inadequate, and this question may exist, but at that time it must be said frankly, and in this case it is a motion for a resolution to amend resolution 2758 that should be presented, rather than a smuggling proposal that might stir up dissension rather than address it. I would add that this resolution comes in a context of rising tensions in the Indo-Pacific, rising nationalisms and sometimes xenophobic sentiments on different sides, rising arms spending – we know something, we wanted to be – that calls for diplomatic action to build peace. And if there can be reason to criticize a particular state for its positions and actions, including China, we must know what the purpose, meaning and scope of the actions we are doing are. You don't say much about it. You do not deal here with the question of the framework defining the legitimacy of an entity of the type of Taiwan to participate or not as an observer in the work of certain international bodies. It should be measured which other entities, in turn, could, in the logic of what you are defending, claim to themselves, including perhaps within our national perimeter. The only argument in this proposal is that the "Taiwanian model" for the fight against covid has been favored by observers. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] For all these reasons, the Communist Members will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u143	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u144	Let me begin by welcoming, Mr de Rugy, who is the author of the resolution, what you have said about the resolutions. The resolutions were introduced into our Constitution by the 2008 reform. This had been carried out by a committee chaired by Mr Balladur, of which I had the honour to be a member, and we had wondered about something simple: how was an assembly elected by the French people prevented from expressing an opinion on any political subject, unless it called into question the existence of the Government or had to vote a law in an extremely coerced agenda? It was absurd that we could not decide on major issues. The amendment of the Constitution to allow it is in this context that we have the opportunity today to comment on a matter of importance, and the comments made by our colleagues, particularly Mr Mélenchon, are here to remind us that this is indeed not a negligible and insignificant subject. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and LR groups]] The Committee on Foreign Affairs did not have to vote on this resolution – it is the case of the groups and of each of us – but in a personal capacity, and with the feeling of representing a large majority of the committee, I will vote in favour of the resolution tabled by Mr de Rugy. I'll do it for three reasons. First of all, I believe that what is to be welcomed in Taiwan is the effectiveness of the health response. It has been the subject of somewhat caricatural and controversial analyses on the part of our colleague from La France insoumée. For my part, I will quote a rather simple text: "In Taiwan, the experience of the SARS epidemic in 2003 has led to the adoption of a surveillance and anticipation strategy such that the island has been very little affected by the pandemic, and no comprehensive binding containment-type measures have had to be taken. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u145	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u146	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] "Taiwan, whose health system has never been overwhelmed, is a model of crisis management that needs to be learned, especially in terms of anticipation and responsiveness. »
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u147	We think we're dreaming!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u148	These comments are contained in Mrs Marielle de Sarnez's report on the pandemic and I am pleased to quote them and recall this very important work done in the last few months of my predecessor's life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u149	That is very different from what our colleague Mélenchon says!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u150	[[Smile]] It's quite different, you're a fine observer, Mr. Herbillon. In this case, the Taiwanese demonstrated three essential qualities. First of all, the speed of reaction: they reported the case as early as December 31, 2019, while the WHO recognized its importance only on January 20, i.e. three weeks late. Secondly, the rigour of the procedures put in place within a democratic framework – because, Mr Mélenchon, democracy is freedom of opinion, partisan pluralism and the vote of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u151	To stand the contradiction is also part of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u152	The rigor was respected, the discipline was respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u153	That's enough of the democracy lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u154	Let's hear the chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u155	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group. – Vif applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, LR and IUD-I groups]] Suffer that I will continue my remarks, Mr. Mélenchon. I have heard you with great interest, without approval, and I invite you to show the same republican reserve. Third, the competence of those responsible for developing a screening model. When we deal with a community that has responded so effectively, so precisely, so much to an misfortune that strikes all of us, to an organization that is more or less manipulated by China like the WHO, and to a state that has enormous responsibilities in triggering the pandemic, we have a duty first of all to humble, respect and recognize this contribution technically. The second reason I support this resolution is that it would be the end of an anomaly, an unjustified sanction imposed on Taiwan. From 2009 to 2016, the Republic of China was recognized as an observer and played its role. It is by a whim that it has been rejected from the technical bodies – I insist on this term – of the various international bodies referred to here. We are pleased to see the People's Republic of China now advocating multilateralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u156	It's not new!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u157	However, multilateralism is not the whim of one who opposes another! It's the respect of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u158	Multilateralism is reserved for the nation-state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u159	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] The third reason is that it is about recognizing a community – and not, Mr Mélenchon, a sovereign state. Taiwan is not a sovereign state and we do not claim to give it political power. Taiwan is a human community, responsible, creative, imaginative...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u160	Like Palestine, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u161	... affected like us by the calamities that strike us, and that contribute like us, and sometimes better than us, to provide remedies for these evils. It must be recognized for its contribution. These are the reasons why we support the adoption of this resolution. Mr. Mélenchon...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u162	Again! But are you going to stop questioning us?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u163	...I have a lot of admiration for you. But I must tell you that after the praise of Venezuela by Mr Maduro of Cuba, after the condemnation of Tibet in the name of secularism, after the ignorance of the crimes against the Uighurs in Xinjiang...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u164	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u165	[[Vif applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, LR, IUD-I and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] ... you really owe us a revenge: the praise of a free and democratic country.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u166	Mr Mélenchon, there will still be explanations of vote, and you will be able to speak in turn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u167	It's a shame, what he just did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u168	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u169	We don't have the right to constantly question a deputy like he just did!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u170	Shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u171	[[Smile]] Calimero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u172	Who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u173	Calm down, please. The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u174	That so many presidents of parliamentary groups and Members have co-signed Mr de Rugy's motion for a resolution is not commonplace, and shows once again, if necessary, that Taiwan's participation in certain international bodies is the subject of an agreement to the least extent. I am pleased that this debate is taking place, and that it is taking place in public session: this shows the role that Parliament can play in international relations, respecting the powers of the President of the Republic – we are thinking in particular of Articles 5 and 52 – and of the Government. Since François de Rugy and Jean-Louis Bourlanges have come back to the genesis of Article 34-1 of the Constitution, I wanted to tell you that I too have some memories of the debates. If the Balladur Committee had recommended the establishment of such a procedure, the debates in the National Assembly were lively, particularly in the Law Committee, and then between the Assembly and the Senate. Thus, the initial drafting of the constitutional reform bill has evolved. This Rule 34-1 now allows Parliament to speak, but with respect for several safeguards put in place during the parliamentary shuttle. You know France's constant policy on the question of Taiwan: since 1964, France has recognized the Government of the People's Republic of China as the only representative of China, and has not maintained diplomatic relations with Taiwan, while developing cooperation, within the exclusive framework that it has agreed to call "the policy of one China". France also considers that relations between the two sides should be based on constructive dialogue, inasmuch as it is in the common interest of many of you that the path of dialogue prevails and that peace and stability be preserved in the Taiwan Strait. Allow me to return in a few words to the dynamics of our discussions with Taiwan, which is our partner and – I gladly take President Bourlanges' word – an important community in Asia. It is the twenty-first world economy, and the island plays an important role in value chains, particularly in the semiconductor industry. Through Taipei's French office and Taipei's representative office in France, France and Taiwan are developing sustained exchanges in the economic and industrial fields, in the fields of science, innovation and technology, and in the fields of culture and education. The French community on the island is estimated at about 4000 people. Our partnership benefits from the vitality of Taiwanese civil society, born from the successful democratic transition that began in the 1980s. France shares with Taiwan the democratic values and the ambition to promote human rights. Our Ambassador for Human Rights visited in January 2020. Cultural cooperation is numerous. The territory is identified as one of the priority destinations for the export of French cultural and creative industries. In the field of education and university, the links are also very dense, as various Taiwanese institutions are included in the list of the best universities in the world. The number of French students in Taiwan has tripled in ten years, making it the largest French contingent in European countries. Taiwan is now recognized diplomatically only by some fifteen states – they are located mainly in Latin America, the Caribbean and the Pacific, but also include the Holy See. Despite this, the island is developing an active policy on the international stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u175	She doesn't exist as a state!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u176	Taiwan is a member of some 30 intergovernmental organizations such as the World Trade Organization, Economic Cooperation for Asia-Pacific or the Asian Development Bank, and participates as an observer or associate member of some 20 intergovernmental organizations or subsidiary bodies, such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) or the Inter-American Development Bank. With regard specifically to Taiwan's participation in the work of international organizations, our position is clear and consistent. I expressed it to the High Assembly last April, and I repeat it to you today: we are in favour of it when the status of the organizations allows it and when this participation meets the objective interests of the international community. This is clearly the case with the organisations mentioned in this motion for a resolution: the World Health Organisation, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the International Criminal Police Organisation and the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The pandemic is a cruel reminder every day of the need for everyone's commitment in all circumstances to meet this challenge. As such, we regret that Taiwan has not been able to participate in the work of the World Health Assembly since 2016, even though that had been the case in the past. There should be no health vacuum in the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u177	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u178	The same applies to climate and transport, as well as, of course, to organised crime, which knows no borders: collective answers to all these questions are indispensable. With regard to health, the figures speak for themselves: Taiwan has successfully fought the epidemic and its experience can be of interest to the entire international community as we work together against the covid-19 pandemic. President Bourlanges recalled: Taiwan was able to learn from the SARS epidemic it had faced in 2003 and to respond to early signs of SARS-CoV-2. As Jean-Yves Le Drian himself pointed out, in this very Chamber, France is therefore in favour of Taiwan's participation in meetings of various international bodies, including WHO. All international actors must take part in the fight against the pandemic. We will therefore continue to advocate for Taiwan to be involved in the work of WHO, in a national capacity, and we will encourage such participation at European level, in full coordination with our partners. However, in my view, this should not become a political issue. It is only a matter of responding to the objective interests of the international community. It is in this spirit that France expresses itself. In order to operate optimally, these organisations need, I repeat, an inclusive approach, a sine qua non for progress towards effective and solidarity-based multilateralism, which brings concrete solutions to the world's major challenges. Multilateralism is not the collection of several "alter multilateralisms" – as we can see the temptation that may exist here and there to build other systems that are supposedly multilateral, but that are aimed at bypassing the multilateral system. Let me say a few words about the development of the situation in the Taiwan Strait, which many of you have mentioned. We follow her naturally with the utmost attention. Military incursions into Taiwan's air defence identification zone have increased since last year, to the point of becoming almost daily. Clearly, we can fear incidents, even slippage, escalation, tensions, the repercussions of which could be considerable. France is a full member of this Indo-Pacific space. I was two days ago in La Réunion, where France chaired the Council of Ministers of the Indian Ocean Commission. Yes, France is also this world-country, present in the Indian Ocean and in this indo-pacific space; our involvement is growing, as we have been accepted as a member of the Association of Indian Ocean Riparian States (IORA). As a power of the Indo-Pacific, France can only be very concerned about the situation in the Taiwan Strait, which we are following closely, particularly during the passage of French ships into the region; In October, this was the case for the Dupuy building in Lôme. We thus demonstrate our commitment to international law and freedom of navigation. Stability in the Strait is essential for the security of the entire region. That is why we condemn any attempt to call into question the status quo, any action that could cause an incident that would lead to an escalation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u179	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u180	I think I can say that we share this concern of the European Union and that we are committed to working to prevent any conflict in order to preserve international peace and security. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, IDU-I and LT groups]] Finally, allow me to thank you once again, ladies and gentlemen, for the contribution of the National Assembly to these complex international issues, but at the heart of the geopolitical issues of our century.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u182	In explanation of vote, Mr François de Rugy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u183	First of all, I would like to thank the many Members who have spoken in support of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u184	Wear the mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u185	Mr. de Rugy, please put your mask back on. It can only be removed when you speak in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u186	On the bottom, we act without a mask. I would therefore like to thank the Members who reaffirmed the support of their group, Michel Herbillon for Les Républicains, Marie-Noëlle Battistel for the Socialist and related group, Philippe Bolo for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, Aina Kuric for Acting together, Frédérique Dumas for Libertés et territoires and Agnes Thill for the IDU and independent group. I stress this because, once again, I believe that this broad gathering is very important. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for his very strong remarks, which is new on this subject, as well as the Secretary of State, who, on behalf of the Government, also made clear comments and showed the interest of the Government of our country in our approach. I am very pleased for my part that there has been a debate. It is quite normal that there should be no unanimity on this issue; It is natural that Mr Mélenchon and Mr Dharréville expressed their opposition, on behalf of their groups, in a somewhat different tone...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u187	That's unfortunate!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u188	But that will not surprise us, on this and other matters. I would like to say to Mr Dharréville that, while what he said about the official recognition of a State by the United Nations is absolutely true, it is neither the subject of this motion for a resolution nor the subject of an ongoing debate at international level. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, from the Communist Group, spoke in committee about Palestine and Western Sahara, but I will not go back to that because, as I said, the subject is not the same. These comparisons may be interesting, but they would lead us far. Palestine, for example, is part of UNESCO without being a member of the United Nations. It is therefore quite possible – and it seems to me that in this case, you find this right – for an entity to be present in certain organizations without the recognition of a State which, as far as Palestine is concerned, has no borders or organized State capable of exercising sovereignty. You can see that comparisons in this area would lead us very far. Mr Mélenchon, I will not go back to the very vindictive form of your remarks – perhaps she betrays a certain uneasiness, a difficulty in speaking of this subject in a calm and serene way – but I will return to the substance. Like Mr Dharréville, you referred to the recognition of China by France in 1964, which you said was based on the fact that there was only one China and that the only government capable of representing China was the government of Beijing, that of Mao Zedong at the time; This is not called into question by our motion for a resolution. The context has changed: we are no longer in 1964 and the government of Taiwan does not claim to be the government representing China.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u189	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u190	There is no debate on this subject. At the time, the Chiang Kai-shek government claimed sovereignty over China as a whole. The current debate is no longer that of 1964. This extremely important point is not directly related to the tensions in the region that we have been many to mention, as the Secretary of State has done in the clearest way. He was right to talk about it, because it's also a reality. What you have said about the fight against covid, Mr Mélenchon, I sometimes hear in the mouths of other politicians, who have decidedly a vision far removed from reality. When we talk about the fight against covid in a country like Taiwan, but also in other countries in the region, we say immediately: "We would never accept this, because it is the approach of an authoritarian state. We can't let that say! Taiwan is one of the most successful democracies in Asia and no doubt in the world: elections are free, there is a political alternation – the current president, who was re-elected in 2020, succeeded in 2016 the president of another political party that had another vision of things. There are completely free media and a fully independent justice system. During the covid crisis, the media constantly discussed the government's policy in debates identical to ours. On the other hand, this policy is not based solely on the use of electronic means, but on individual isolation rather than on collective confinement. I do not reopen the debate on this issue, but it seems to me that this policy can perfectly defend itself; It is not a sign of a non-democratic regime. It cannot therefore be said that Taiwan would not be a democracy. There are debates in Taiwan on all subjects, including and above all on relations with mainland China. So you are trying to set up a false debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, IDU-I and LT groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore invite you to support this motion for a resolution, which is a small but real contribution to Taiwan's representation in a number of international forums.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u191	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u192	As Jean-Louis Bourlanges has explained very well, our group will support the adoption of this motion for a resolution which aims to involve Taiwan in the work of international organisations and multilateral cooperation forums. Covid-19 has shown us that the challenges ahead of us tomorrow require bringing together all the existing government forces around the world to provide common responses to crises that are increasingly global. Multilateralism thus appears to be the only approach that can provide effective responses. However, it involves involving all actors on the international scene. Taiwan should not be an exception. How can we justify excluding more than 23 million people from any representation in international forums and forums, even though concrete solutions are developed within them? Why deprive us longer of the knowledge and good practices available to a territory, even though they can be beneficial to all of our countries? As has been said, Taiwan is currently playing an active role in health diplomacy. We have a lot to learn from countries that have faced SARS or H1N1 in the past. During the health crisis, the Taiwanese management model, which was not displeased by Mr Mélenchon, was illustrated by the speed with which it was implemented and, above all, by its effectiveness. Currently, although Taiwan's state status is incomplete, it seems essential that Taiwan be able to attend the work carried out within international organizations. For many years, the latter have incorporated into their statutes specific arrangements allowing the separate entities of the Member States or those without State status to participate in their work, regardless of the name given to such participation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and IDU-I groups]] As has been said, Taiwan is already a member, under different names, of several international organizations such as the WTO or the Asian Development Bank. We hope that this trend will continue. In adopting this resolution, we therefore make a strong gesture of our commitment to multilateralism and, above all, our opposition to any hegemonic will.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u193	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u194	As I did in committee, I will begin – once it is not customary – by thanking Mr de Rugy for his action on this subject. I remember that during the most delicate period of the epidemic, we had multiplied the hearings and reviewed the situation in many countries through enlightening hearings of our diplomats and experts in this health crisis. We were then impressed by the way in which Taiwan, a country so close to China, had strong economic, commercial and often family relations with the outbreak of the epidemic, and had been able to contain its consequences. The Taiwanese had benefited from their experience with the previous SARS epidemic and from the quality of their health care system, but their overall strategy seemed to have been remarkable at all points, allowing them to limit contamination, hospitalizations and deaths to record levels, without affecting their economy through containment measures. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. François de Rugy also applauds]] At that time, I asked Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian that Taiwan was in vain asking for a simple observer position at the WHO to share its expertise and advance the fight against this pandemic. I am therefore pleased that the motion for a resolution that we are considering is in this direction. As Marie-Noëlle Battistel said in the general discussion, the Socialist and related group will support these legitimate demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u195	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u196	[[Applause]] Co-signatory of this motion for a resolution, like many Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I thank François de Rugy for placing it on the agenda. I have an emotional thought for our late colleague Jean-François Cesarini. He deserves these applause. As chair of the international study group on issues related to the expansion of the Taiwanese economy, he has worked extensively on joint actions between France and Taiwan, particularly in the cultural field. François Wu, Taiwan's representative in France, and Antoine, his collaborator, who are present in our gallery, can attest to this, because they have worked a lot with him. This motion for a resolution, similar to the one voted unanimously in the Senate last May, is a strong act in favour of the recognition of Taiwan in international forums and of better cooperation. Indeed, by adopting this text, our Assembly will confirm France's willingness to restore Taiwan's participation in international forums and forums, because Taiwan is actively involved in the fight against climate change and organised crime, but also in the preservation of human health. As many of you have recalled, Taiwan's management of the covid-19 pandemic has been widely praised and the quality of its health system makes it a key player in global health. While the goal of WHO is to best protect the health of each and every one of us on a global scale, excluding Taiwan from its work is no longer understandable. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Secretary of State, in the name of the deep and sincere ties between France and Taiwan, but also because of Taiwan's expertise in many areas, I hope that, on the basis of the resolution adopted in May 2021 in the Senate and on this motion for a resolution to be adopted in the National Assembly, you will soon be able to strengthen your diplomatic efforts in favour of a better recognition of Taiwan within international organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u197	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u198	I'm going up to the stand so I can remove the mask that's choking me. Mr Bourlanges, I would like to express my extreme disappointment at the tone in which you welcomed my speech. It seems to me that your particular responsibility, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should lead you to the same extent as Mrs de Sarnez demonstrated to me, which had differences with me at least as deep as those you express. I do not accuse you of being a supporter of torture because you have never said anything against Guantánamo; I do not accuse you of being an accomplice to Mr. Assange's martyrdom because you have not signed the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to grant him political asylum; I don't accuse you of being an accomplice in the humiliation of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u199	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u200	Earlier, Mr. de Rugy was blaming me for what I said. Yet he knows better than anyone how difficult it is to speak in a forum when everyone shouts at you. It is true that this can lead to raising the voice, so I ask you to hear me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u201	Calimero!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u202	Mr Bourlanges, you are acting odiously towards me. Nevertheless, because you are a representative of the French people, I consider your opinion to be legitimate, and legitimate to be heard here: I do not need any excess to discredit it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u203	That's the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u204	Thank you for this liberality!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u205	Keep your sarcasm to yourself, you're heinous! I fully understand that there is no agreement with me, especially since, given the current tension, this is a subject of extreme gravity. You have all referred to the context in which we find ourselves, concluding your remarks by saying that you will vote for the resolution, because you want to oppose the hegemonism that you attribute to Beijing. Therefore, you deduce that whoever does not vote hates the people of Taiwan, but it is not! I have the same sympathy for the people of Taiwan, the same empathy I have for the people of Canton, Shanghai, or other Chinese provinces. I recognize Taiwanese talent, its brio, its intelligence, its ability to adapt to situations; It's obvious! Taiwan has been a province of China since, in France, we annexed Franche-Comté by killing half of its population. These issues are no longer being debated. What, in my view – in my view, is a debate – is whether it is intelligent to gradually bring water to a mill that is not ours, especially in a context of tension. We should do the opposite! Our policy must seek to relax, not to tender. Like me, you know that the United States of America is currently working to revive a cold war logic with Beijing. You seem to think that Beijing is responsible for this situation and that China is a great danger: in view of the disproportion of forces and means, for my part, I do not believe it. In this regard, I thank the Secretary of State for not getting down to this controversy with me. I have one point of view, you have another: you are the majority, your resolution will be adopted. However, I ask that we take into account the context in which we are and the unique responsibility that France bears when it takes the floor. Indeed, our country is the first to truly recognize Beijing China, the People's Republic of China;...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u206	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u207	...that's how it is, that's a historical fact. Also, everything we say is heard, looked at. There's affection for us, friendship. I would add that I do not believe that the people of Taiwan would see as an offence that we do not recognize their country as a special status in multilateral forums. I have the right to think that and do not see why I should be the subject of any vindiction: I find this completely disproportionate. Colleagues, hegemonism may not be where you believe it! Some seem to dream of a return to the cold war, but the world today is much more dangerous than it was at that time. As for multilateralism, someone has said completely wrongly that the People's Republic of China has only recently recognized it. No! It is nothing to know about China's policy to say that it was not in favour of multilateralism in the past: it was even the heart of its position and one of the reasons why it opposed the USSR. China refused the world order from Yalta and built around two superpowers. These are historical facts. So we simply say that voting on this resolution is not a good idea. And don't tell us that it comes by chance, when a summit of so-called democracies is to take place around the United States of America on 9 and 10 December. If you really believe in the danger you are insisting on, how is it that no one has even mentioned the fact that we have been expelled by the United States of America, Australia and the United Kingdom from an alliance in an area where we are represented, where we have a geographical existence? You will understand, therefore, that the context you claim to have led me to have conclusions different from yours, or even exactly the opposite: indeed, I believe I have pleaded for peace. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] As far as health policy is concerned, which I shall end with, we also do not agree. You have the right to think she's great, but I'm denying the widespread surveillance that the Beijing system has led to!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u208	Taipei! There are lapsus that say a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u209	And in Beijing, what's the system like?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u210	If you want to apply the same in France, why don't you say so?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u211	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u212	The Republican Group will vote with enthusiasm and determination for this motion for a resolution: it is both the choice of heart and reason. It is the choice of heart, first, because we love Taiwan and its democratic political model. In Taiwan, Mr Mélenchon, there is no single party; There are elections and a democratic alternation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u213	But I agree! What's the problem and what are you blaming me for?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u214	Mr Mélenchon, please listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u215	It is also the choice of reason, and here the doctor speaks to you. This has nothing to do with the United States of America or any cold war: health takes precedence over politics, Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u216	Stop questioning me personally!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u217	The virus knows no borders. It is important to share information and without Taiwan, there is a hole in the health protection and watch network. I would add that non-State entities may participate, as observers, in the institutions referred to here; It's planned! That's what Taiwan did from 2009 to 2016 and it didn't bother anyone. Taiwan has not been invited since 2017. Why? Who benefits from the crime? [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and SOC groups. – Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applauds]] I repeat, for all these reasons, of heart and reason, we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u218	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u219	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 41 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 39 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u220	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u221	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u222	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mr Philippe Bolo on France's commitment to strengthening international action to combat plastic pollution (point 4578).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u223	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u224	I would like to begin by thanking the 402 co-signatory Members of this motion for a resolution. The fact that they are members of eight different political groups in the National Assembly shows us that the subject of plastic pollution brings together and concerns us all. This motion for a resolution is the result of a report I drafted with Angèle Préville, Senator du Lot, on behalf of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST), for which we worked for 15 months and which required 250 hours of hearings. It highlights all the complexity of plastic pollution, which can be visible, but also insidious and invisible with regard to nanoplastics, whose impacts remain unknown. This type of pollution results from leaks throughout the value chain: first, during product design, with the use of polymer granules, then during the use of these products, which, when used, form microparticles, and, at the end of life, during the treatment of waste. This pollution has societal and environmental consequences, particularly for biodiversity, at the global level. However, plastic pollution awakens consciousness and finds legislative translations. In France, for the past ten years, different laws have dealt with this issue. This was the case in 2009 and 2010, with the programming law on the implementation of the Grenelle de l'Environnement – Grenelle 1 law – and the law on national commitment to the environment – Grenelle 2 law –; in 2015, with the law on the energy transition for green growth; in 2016, with the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes; and, under this legislature, in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, with the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all – EGALIM law – the law on business growth and transformation – PACTE law – and the law on the fight against waste and circular economy – AGEC law. We have thus taken an interest in the treatment of waste, the prohibition of single-use plastics, the responsibility of producers, or the good information of consumers. In all these areas, France has been proactive. However, this regulatory arsenal results in constraints, on the one hand for companies, which see the standards increase and which suffer from distortions of competition vis-à-vis foreign companies which do not have to comply with such laws, on the other hand for French and French companies, who are invited to change their habits and who sometimes incur additional costs. The equation to be solved is therefore not so simple, because if this global problem can be solved through binding regulations, it will never be solved if France is alone in action. This is the spirit of this motion for a resolution, which aims to include France in an international approach, in order to convince other countries to commit themselves to the fight against plastic pollution. Thus, this motion for a resolution has three axes. The first concerns France's action at European level, in order to speed up the ban on microplastics intentionally added to various consumer products, to launch a European financial mechanism to make recycled plastics more advantageous compared to virgin resins and to prevent the Mediterranean from becoming a new gyre. The second focuses on actions to enable global collaboration between scientific teams, organizing for plastic the equivalent of what has been done for climate with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC. Finally, the third priority is to support the initiative of Peru and Rwanda for an international agreement against plastic pollution. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Christine Pires Beaune and Mr M的jid El Guerrab also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore invite you to vote on this motion for a resolution and to associate your voice, the voice of our Assembly, with the voice of French diplomacy, which will be expressed in 2022, during the French Presidency of the European Union, but also in February this year in Brest, at the One Ocean Summit, but also in Nairobi, at the fifth session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) and finally in June 2022, at the United Nations Conference on the Oceans in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u225	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u226	This motion for a resolution is based in particular on the conclusions of a recent report by the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, which notes that, in less than a hundred years, plastic has become the third most manufactured material in the world, after cement and steel: 359 million tonnes were produced in 2018, a number that rises to 438 million tonnes, taking into account plastics in textiles and synthetic rubbers. This production is expected to double by 2050. The report also points out that, although plastics were originally designed to be used as resistant and long-lasting materials, they are now, paradoxically, increasingly used for single short-lived uses. For example, the strong growth in plastic production is driven by the boom in the packaging sector, which, with a global market share of 36%, is the first market. As a result, 81% of the plastics put into circulation become waste after a single year of existence. To combat the proliferation of different forms of plastic pollution, including the most insidious forms such as micro- and nanoplastics, the OPECST report makes a number of recommendations. Some of these recommendations are taken up in the context of this motion for a resolution, which also has the merit of being fully part of a triple context: both international, European and national. At the international level, noting the absence of a comprehensive and binding agreement to combat plastic pollution, this resolution calls for such an agreement, which includes, in particular, a component on the control of exports of plastic waste. He also called for the establishment of an intergovernmental expert group on plastic pollution, based on the IPCC model, which was responsible, inter alia, for harmonizing scientific research. At European level, it should be recalled that, in order to finance its recovery plan linked to the covid-19 crisis, the European Union has decided to introduce a plastic tax on the weight of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, to be borne by the Member States. The text of the resolution proposes to take advantage of this new dynamic to move towards a reduction, harmonised at European level, in the price of recycled plastics compared to the still very low price of virgin plastics. At the national level, it should be noted that the law on combating waste and the circular economy provides, inter alia, for the gradual end of the placing on the market of single-use plastic packaging by 2040. However, in order to fill certain gaps in this law and to make it more operational, this motion for a resolution calls for a national plan on plastics, based on a precise inventory of plastic materials put into circulation on the French market and set out in a series of concrete measures. If we can only approve the requests made in this text, we regret that the measures mentioned have not found any legislative translation. During the review of the AGEC Act, however, our group had made several amendments, rejected at the time by the majority, which were in line with this resolution. For example, we proposed setting up a clear, annually updated inventory of barriers to the recycling of plastic waste and prohibiting any practice that could constitute such an obstacle. The national plan on plastics, called for in this resolution, would have benefited from such measures, both pragmatic and binding. Similarly, in order to reduce the price of products composed of recycled and bio-sourced materials, we proposed the introduction of a "circular VAT". While this proposal, formulated by our group under the AGEC law, was also swept away by the Government and its majority at the time, it is clear that we must now find a financial or fiscal mechanism to make eco-design products more competitive in the face of competition from virgin plastics. Finally, we regret the fact that this motion for a resolution reflects only part of the recommendations made in the framework of the OPECST report. Among the recommendations that are not included in the resolution text are the accompanying conversion of companies directly affected by the ban on plastics. However, it should be recalled that whenever the legislator proposes new restrictions, they must, if we want them to be truly effective and sustainable, be accompanied by new financial and human resources. We would therefore have preferred a "catch-up" law, correcting the errors and omissions of the AGEC law and accompanied by new accompanying measures for the sectors concerned. This text of the resolution is, however, undeniably in the right direction and contains interesting positions, particularly in view of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as from 1 January this year. [[Applause on the SOC Group and Dem Group benches]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, but we would like to recall the need to accompany this type of declaration of intention with concrete measures, as well as with a strengthening of the resources dedicated to the transition of the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u227	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u228	Today we have to discuss plastic pollution when we consider Mr Philippe Bolo's motion for a resolution. I welcome his work, which began in the context of a report by the OECST presented last year on the subject. This motion for a resolution allows us first to take stock of our action to combat plastic pollution. I am thinking first of all of the EGALIM law, which laid the first stones, and then of the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, in which the question of plastic waste is no longer dealt with solely from the perspective of recycling, but more comprehensively. The best waste is that which is not produced. That is why we voted to end the placing on the market of single-use plastic packaging by 2040. I would like to ask the Government about this goal: what is happening at this stage, and can we seriously consider holding it? The AGEC law has made it possible to take a major step forward, including the prohibition of the free distribution of plastic bottles, tumblettes or plastic straws in the restoration. However, we can regret that some important measures are not yet implemented – I am thinking in particular of the ban on plastic packaging for fruit and vegetables – while being aware that the sectors need time to adapt. While recent take-out and fast-food practices have changed to limit plastic food packaging, which represents a major step forward, the health crisis and various containments have, unfortunately, generated a great deal of waste since the take-out sale has undergone an extraordinary development. If this has saved the restaurant sector, which is in great difficulty, has it been possible to assess the consequences of this development in terms of the waste produced over the period? I would like to recall and welcome the adoption of the Maina Sage amendment, which included in the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects the ban on polystyrene food packaging, the use of which continues to pollute our seas and oceans. This law has also laid new foundations for developing bulk sales and delivery, measures which offer good prospects for the eradication of single-use plastic and thus the reduction of the pollution from which it is at the origin. Above all, I would like to welcome the willingness shown by this motion for a resolution to use several levers of action, both at national, European and international level. Indeed, such a fight cannot be waged alone and in isolation. I am thinking in particular of the Mediterranean countries in my constituency, where the sea is in a more than worrying state. A study, published last June by the French Research Institute for the exploitation of the sea, IFREMER, alerts us to plastic pollution in the Mediterranean Sea. One of the data to be used is that 95% of marine litter ends up on the bottom, which means that surface pollution accounts for only a small part of it. I would also like to pay tribute here to the commitment of François-Michel Lambert, head of the Institut de l'économie circular, on this issue. This pollution has a direct impact on the biodiversity of this beautiful environment, as microplastics endanger its wildlife to the seabed. That is why we support, for example, the inclusion of microplastics in the European Water Framework Directive. It is about protecting our rivers and groundwater. The first solution to avoid aggravating an already dramatic situation is to change our behaviour individually: we must act at the source, especially since at the international level, the levers are much more difficult to operate. Much remains to be done when we know that five countries, first and foremost China, would be responsible for more than half of the plastic waste. Finally, we commend the work of the Government and the majority for the past five years in the fight against plastic pollution. We know that we need to go further to make the effects visible, and this motion for a resolution encourages us to do so. Today, together, let us go further to give France a leading role, at European and international level, in the common and trans-party fight against plastic pollution. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, the Group of the European People's Party will enthusiastically support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u229	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u230	After the Second World War, during the period of sustained growth of the Thirty Glories, plastic was the embodiment of progress – I emphasize it, because we will have to see in thirty years what embodies the progress of our time. Lightweight, versatile, resistant and cheap product, plastic makes it possible to better conserve food and is an ally of the medical world due to its technical characteristics guaranteeing safety, hygiene and compatibility with the human body. As a famous rock band sang: "Plastic is fantastic. » In short, polyethylene, polyvinyl, polypropylene, polycarbonate or polystyrene are everywhere! The mass-consumption society and deregulated capitalism only accentuate the phenomenon. But disposable plastics, single-use plastics and overpacks destroy our landscapes and biodiversity: from microplastics to supercontinents of waste, present in almost all oceans. Thus, thirty years later, the same rock band can this time sing: "Plastic is dramatic! » Our current practices are therefore neither sustainable nor capable of responding to environmental and societal challenges. Everyone agrees and everyone who has already spoken has said so. The top priority must therefore be to reduce the overall volume of our waste – plastics in particular – and then, in a second step, to re-use and improve sorting. Despite all the alternatives already proposed, or under development, with plant or biodegradable plastics, the best waste is that which is not produced. The triptych of circular economy is first to reduce, then to reuse and finally to recycle. With the ultramarine experience, the IDU and independent group wants to wage a total war against plastic pollution. Some territories are in advance and show us the way, including New Caledonia, which elected two members of our group, Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer. This Pacific Ocean archipelago adopted the country's law of 21 January 2019, aiming to ban all disposable plastic products by 2022. If our ultramarine fellow citizens can do it, so can we! Thus, during the examination of the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, we had defended many proposals, some of which were adopted, in particular on the proper functioning of the REP channels – the extended responsibility of producers – with the opening of data and the prohibition of plastic packaging for newspapers and magazines. In a trans-party initiative, we also voted for a ban on the placing on the market of products intentionally containing microplastics. The law should also be enforced. Article L. 541-49 of the Environmental Code provides that the Government shall annually submit to Parliament a report, made public, on the implementation of the national waste prevention and management policy. This should include administrative action on cross-border transfer of waste. However, according to the National Assembly, this report, which has been due at least since 1992, has never been submitted. Finally, we can only support the provision provided for in the second paragraph of the motion for a resolution. For several years, the president of our group, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, has been defending amendments in favour of an incentive and punitive taxation favouring the incorporation of recycled plastic in order to compensate for the low prices of virgin material. Unfortunately, they have always been rejected. This lack of adequate taxation to limit our plastic consumption leads us to contribute more than €1.2 billion to the European budget, because our recycling rates are below targets. It would therefore be time to speed up. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In conclusion, we would like to thank the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats for placing this text on the agenda, almost two years after the adoption of the AGEC Act. In view of its balanced and realistic approach, and because it proposes real solutions, the IDU and independent group has, in its vast majority, co-signed it. For all these reasons, we will vote unreservedly on this motion for a resolution and hope that the Government will respond to it with ambition and boldness.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u231	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u232	Year after year, plastic pollution is intensifying, because of plastic bags, bottles, filters, cups, straws, masks, but also all microfibres, all microplastics. The figures are instructive: every year 275 million tons of new plastic waste are created. According to the UN, in 2021, 17 tons of plastic were spilled into the oceans every minute. In France, 80000 tonnes of plastics are discharged annually. This massive pollution has significant impacts on biodiversity – you know, we know, everyone knows that. The images of dead marine animals, strangled by the plastics they ingested, are the most edifying. It is estimated that 1.4 million birds and 14,000 mammals die each year due to the ingestion of macroplastics. But there is also another, more insidious threat, that of microplastics, which are present, as you have pointed out, in microbeads, but especially in textile fibres – 69% of these are currently synthetic. These microplastics enter the heart of the food chain. If you have not yet seen the images captured under the plankton microscope ingesting microplastics and dying, I invite you to do so, to become aware of the urgency. I will not talk about the impact of plastic on greenhouse gas emissions – it is equivalent to that of several tens of millions of cars. If we continue to produce as much plastic, 15% of the CO we can emit before reaching the famous 1.5 degree Celsius threshold of global warming will be devoted to the production of this material. More than 8 billion tons of plastic are in circulation and more virgin plastic is produced each year. To deal with this growing crisis, we need a multi-pronged approach. The motion for a resolution under consideration is in line with this approach and calls on the Government to take action at three levels: at the national level, with the establishment of a national plan on plastics; on a European scale, with the introduction of a harmonised mechanism to support the prices of recycled resins, the prohibition of intentionally added microplastics and the inclusion of microplastics in the process of assessing good environmental status under the Water Framework Directive (WFD); At the international level, by supporting the creation of an international forum to harmonize research on the subject – this will be a kind of plastics IPCC – and by playing a leading role in the adoption of a legally binding text. Yes, these proposals go in the right direction and yes, we believe that the plastic pollution crisis must be a priority on the global agenda. However, we fear that these international negotiations will be time-consuming. We even know they will be, when we don't have time. The Mediterranean Sea can die within twenty years, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, since we attended together the IUCN Congress – the International Union for Conservation of Nature. This sea accounts for 1% of saltwater and 7% of plastic pollution, while it takes 90 years to renew its waters. Do you think she'll be able to survive for a long time? The urgency is therefore to take the problem to the root, by cutting off access to gas and oil, these raw materials being used to produce the cheap and very abundant plastic that overwhelms us. That's what we have to do! By 2030, the system has to be completely changed, reducing the use of plastic, whereas it is currently found in everything and anything; by strengthening recycling – since recycling must become the only way to produce plastic – which involves research; replacing other materials with plastic, since plastic can be replaced for certain needs. We managed to change the automotive world, by deciding here the end of the thermal cars in 2040. Well, let's do the same for plastic, even if it won't be enough. We must also go further, placing the challenge of plastic at the heart of our public policy. Madam Secretary of State, the creation of a National Plastics Agency, following the model of the OFB – the French Biodiversity Office –, which you know well, is essential to control, guide the use of plastic and remove it when it is not necessary. In fact, you will be able to defend this agency at European level. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, I would like to thank the thirty colleagues who co-signed my bill to provide France with the necessary instruments to combat plastic pollution – in addition to setting up an agency, this proposal provides for the adoption of a "zero plastic oil" strategy. Dear Philippe Bolo, this would be the second blade of your motion for a resolution. It is essential and we will be presenting this text in February, because we must move even faster. From tonight, we press the right button, to support you; We will continue to work together in this House as long as we have time to fight the scourge of plastic.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u233	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u234	This motion for a resolution on the fight against plastic pollution is in the right direction, even if it does not go far enough. We must welcome certain points that are part of the vision of ecology for which we are fighting. We note your choice of a planning vocabulary. This motion for a resolution calls for the establishment of a "national plan on plastics", which will lead to concrete, binding and incentive measures. It also calls on France to unite all the countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea to establish an ambitious action plan and to participate in the development of a binding international legal framework. The inadequacies of the text must also be pointed out. For example, it calls for the reduction of international shipments of waste to be stepped up. We need to go further, by stopping exporting our pollution and plastic waste. The world's oceans are drowned under plastic, which is present everywhere. It is even found in the Antarctic glaciers and up to the peaks of the Alps. It is eaten – every human ingests 5 grams of plastic a week – It is also drunk, as microplastics are found in drinking water and bottled water. We need to go further than a resolution, by setting a binding legal framework. Indeed, without prohibition or regulation, the worst is to be feared. About 80% of the plastic produced since 1950 has never been recycled or incinerated. The equivalent of the contents of a plastic-laden garbage truck is poured into the oceans every minute. I would like to take this opportunity to recall what needs to be done on a global scale. France must actively support the international anti-plastics treaty under negotiation. It must also be the spearhead of ecological diplomacy in the service of human progress. It must promote a joint initiative to clean up the sea, as well as a ban on the export of plastic waste abroad. We must also act in the Mediterranean Sea, as provided for in the programme of unsolicited France, entitled "L'Avenir en commun", by proposing to unite the small Mediterranean basin around common objectives of progress. The fight against plastic could be a priority objective of this cooperation. Above all, we must act without delay at the national level. We have a special responsibility because we have the second largest maritime domain in the world. France is therefore present on all levels. The measures taken by the Government are insufficient, in particular those provided for in the AGEC Act. I will give one example: the decree implementing section 77 of this Act, published on 8 October, obliges retail businesses to present fresh and unprocessed fruit and vegetables without plastic packaging, starting on 1 January 2022. However, the obligation does not apply to those at risk of deterioration when selling in bulk. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, this motion for a resolution is in the right direction, and the La France group will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u235	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u236	In view of the fact that plastic is not always fantastic, we are invited to vote today on a motion for a resolution which has a very broad consensus, both in this House and among our fellow citizens. Public opinion is very much aware of the most visible effects of plastic pollution, through the media, association campaigns and measures taken by the public authorities. Plastic pollution is most often apprehended by our fellow citizens through the prism of food packaging and marine pollution by macroplastics – a reality that we must naturally tackle. However, too many of them ignore the role of the textile industry, cosmetics, tyres, agriculture and fisheries in this growing pollution. The pollution caused by the approximately 8.3 billion tonnes of plastics produced since the early 1950s, of which 3.9 billion tonnes have been produced since 2002, is however multifaceted. Research is now studying the effects on the environment and human health of the invisible threat posed by the proliferation of micro- and nanoplastics. At the beginning of October, ten days before the start of the United Nations Climate Conference, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) published an assessment which, according to the Executive Director of the institution, "provides the strongest scientific argument to date to highlight the urgency of action". This assessment warns that, by 2040, the volume of plastic pollution spilling into marine areas will almost triple, adding 23 to 37 million metric tonnes of plastic waste to the ocean per year, or 50 kilograms of plastic per metre of coastline worldwide. Such a level of pollution poses a threat not only to marine and aquatic life but also to human health, potentially causing hormonal changes, developmental disorders, reproductive abnormalities and cancers. Marine litter and plastic pollution also have a significant impact on the global economy. The economic costs of marine plastic pollution, including its effects on tourism, fisheries and aquaculture, were estimated in 2018 between $6 billion and $19 billion worldwide. It is expected that by 2040 companies will face an annual financial risk of EUR 100 billion. Finally, the evaluation of the United Nations Environment Programme points out that plastics is also a climate problem: on the basis of a life-cycle analysis, greenhouse gas emissions from plastics in 2015 amounted to 1.7 gigatonne CO equivalent, or 15% of the global carbon budget. These findings are not new. They are included in the excellent report on plastic pollution by our colleague Philippe Bolo, on the initiative of this text, and by Senator Angèle Préville, on behalf of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices. The motion for a resolution incorporates some of the most structural recommendations of this report: the definition of a binding international legal framework, the establishment of an international expert group on the IPCC model, the creation of a financial mechanism to support the price of recycled plastics, the revision of the water directive to take account of microplastics, the definition of a national plan for the reduction, reuse, recycling and recovery of plastic waste. These recommendations are probably sinning because of their generality. Nevertheless, on the eve of the meeting of the United Nations Environment Assembly, to be held from 28 February to 2 March 2022 in Nairobi, they have the merit of reminding France of its responsibilities as a great maritime power, as a country bordering the Mediterranean – I know something about it – and as a great agricultural power welcoming on its soil some of the flagships of the European agri-food industry, which is called upon to play a key role in reducing the use of packaging and the development of re-use and recycling, as part of a more comprehensive transformation of our production and consumption patterns. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and SOC groups]] I will not surprise you by telling you that the GDR Group will vote for this text, which we have co-signed, following our colleague Hubert Wulfranc. We regret, however, that it does not place sufficient emphasis on the changes in lifestyle, production and consumption that involve the rapid reduction of our dependence on plastic, which requires no less political imagination than the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u237	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u238	The motion for a resolution on France's commitment to strengthening international action to combat plastic pollution, tabled at the initiative of Philippe Bolo, is co-signed by all the Members of the majority – the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups together – as well as by many colleagues from the other groups. The observation is alarming: plastic pollution is present all over the world, and the figures are frightening. Plastic production is growing steadily from 1.5 million tonnes in 1950 to over 350 million tonnes today, and 80% of plastics become waste after a year. Between 1950 and 2015, nearly 7 billion tonnes of plastic waste were generated, 80% of which were landfilled or discharged into the wild. The planet's land, fresh water and oceans are contaminated with macro-, micro-, and nanoplastics. It is estimated that 300 million tonnes of plastic waste is present in the oceans, to which more than 10 million tonnes of new waste must be added each year. In some areas, the accumulation of waste by the effect of sea currents is such that one speaks of a seventh continent. The size of this continent of plastic waste located in the Pacific, between America and Japan, would be six times that of France; Unfortunately, it is no longer the only one discovered in 1997. There are four plastic seas in the other oceans, and the Mediterranean Sea has concentrations at least as high as that of the seventh continent. This pollution would be responsible, among other things, for the deaths of 1.4 million birds and 14,000 marine mammals each year. Micro- and nanoplastics thus integrate the food chain and are found in our plates. Our colleague Philippe Bolo, in the report he submitted on behalf of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, was right to call this pollution a "time bomb". In view of this, we have not remained inactive: since 2017, through the adoption of several laws, we have sought to change behaviour and drastically limit the use of plastic. Thanks to the EGALIM Act of October 2018, we have reduced the use of plastic in the food sector by banning cooking, heating and plastic service food containers in collective catering as early as 2025. We also banned plastic tumblettes and straws in restaurants, take-aways, canteens and food shops in 2020. We went even further in the fight against disposable plastic with the 2020 law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, which accelerates the change of production and consumption model in order to limit waste. We have programmed the end of single-use plastic packaging by 2040 and reduce the practice of overpacking unprocessed fresh fruit and vegetables. The motion for a resolution is therefore part of the continuity of the work initiated by the majority. France must be at the forefront of this fight in Europe and in the world and act to preserve a healthy and sustainable environment. It is the whole purpose of this text that is intended to be a useful expression of national representation in favour of ambitious environmental diplomacy, which is already well engaged by the Presidency of the Republic and the Government. The text calls for a "global, coherent and coordinated policy". At national level, it calls for the adoption of a national plan on plastics incorporating concrete, binding and incentive measures, together with an inventory of plastics placed on the French market. At the European level, the text then emphasises three priorities: the development of a financial mechanism to support the price of recycled plastics in response to low prices for virgin resins, the extension of the list of restrictions in REACH – registration, evaluation, authorisation of chemicals and restrictions on these substances – to intentionally added microplastics and the integration of a "microplastic" parameter into the process of assessing the good ecological status of the Water Framework Directive. At the international level, the motion for a resolution provides for three initiatives: to unite the Mediterranean countries in favour of the adoption of an action plan for the containment of plastic materials discharged into the sea, to establish an intergovernmental group of experts on plastic pollution, like the IPCC, and to establish a more binding international legal framework. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] With the adoption of this motion for a resolution, France will be the cornerstone of the fight against plastic pollution in Europe and around the world. There are humanistic and universalistic values in France, which must be fully engaged in this fight for nature, biodiversity and humanity. For all these reasons, and with great enthusiasm, Members of the La République Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u239	Mr Michel Vialay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u240	l.5 million tonnes of plastic produced in 1950, 359 million tonnes in 2018; We reject the equivalent of our body weight every year, and this production is expected to double in 2050. Every year, 100 billion plastic bottles made on our planet; as many microplastics in the air at the Pic du Midi, in the heart of the Pyrenees, as in Paris; 150 million tons of plastic in the oceans; a plastic continent of 3.5 million square kilometers, called the seventh continent, big as six times France... And this is only the visible part of the iceberg. More plastics than fish in the oceans in 2050; an annual health cost of 163 billion euros for Europe... We ingest 5 grams of plastic each week, the equivalent of a credit card. These few figures should give us vertigo. In December 2019, after more than seventy hearings and round tables with stakeholders from all sectors concerned, the joint information mission on endocrine disruptors in plastic containers – food, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals – that I chaired, made clear and precise conclusions that helped alert us to this major public health problem and strengthen our collective awareness of the challenges associated with it. Welcomed unanimously by the Members of both Committees, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning and the Committee on Social Affairs, this report clearly shows that additives to plastics, some of which are endocrine disruptors, can migrate into the contents of the product more or less significantly depending on several factors. Their mode of action makes them fearsome and their effects can, at the most sensitive times of life, have irreversible effects. The impact of endocrine disruptors on our health is now demonstrated and their link is now established with many diseases such as cancers, obesity, diabetes, thyroid diseases, fertility disorders, genital malformations and neurodevelopmental diseases. The recommendations we made with Lauriane Rossi and Claire Pitollat, the mission's co-rapporteurs, stressed, among other things, the need to strengthen European regulations, which are too weak and heterogeneous depending on the sectors of application, the need to place a strong emphasis on research efforts on endocrine disruptors, media and biodiversity – to which I know the Secretary of State is sensitive – and the need to monitor the fate of additives during recycling. All this, of course, goes hand in hand with the need to train, inform, and raise awareness. Unlike the covid-19 crisis, the health crisis inherent in plastic is deaf, but its risks to our health are considerable. Even if there are many resistances, it is up to us to react strongly, because danger is present everywhere, in all environments and environments. Plastic will persist long after our own life, for at least five or six times our existence. It does not dissolve like metal or glass, it does not degrade by the action of micro-organisms present in the soil such as paper or cardboard; It breaks down into small microscopic pieces, then nanoscopic ones. Now invisible, the billions of tons of plastic we've accumulated over the last 50 years are a real time bomb. Drinking water, salt and certain seafood products are already contaminated with these micro- and nanoplastics. Ingested by our body, they can cross the tissues, accumulate in the organs and cause serious inflammatory phenomena, or even cause a cocktail effect of chemical reactions that are difficult to predict. The State has a strong interest in acting: a baseline study estimates that the annual cost of exposure to endocrine disruptors is only EUR 163 billion for Europe – and again, based on a limited number of endocrine disruptors for which the data are reliable in terms of association with a limited number of chronic diseases. Under the chairmanship of Senator Angèle Préville and our colleague Philippe Bolo, the report issued in December 2020 by our colleagues who are members of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices reinforces these findings. His recommendations follow the same logic. There is an urgent need for action at national, European and international level, as the exhibition is multifactorial and no legislation or research embraces it in its entirety. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] During the debates on the "climate and resilience" law, deputies The Republicans had presented a counter-project that called, among other things, for research on endocrine disruptors to be a health priority in order to protect the health of the French. In line with this contribution, the Republicans' 2022 project for France identifies in particular the fight against pollution and the reduction of waste as one of its thirty major priorities, paying particular attention to plastic. That is why we welcome the collective awareness that is emerging today. The Republicans will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u241	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u242	Plastic pollution, a symbol of the drifts of our consumer society, is of great concern. More than 400 million tonnes of plastic were produced in 2018, and this figure is expected to double by 2040. This is cold on the back, especially when we know that 81% of the plastics put into circulation become waste after a year, as highlighted in the recent report of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices. Beyond the desolating images of our oceans filled with plastic waste, we now realize that pollution from microplastics and nanoplastics is increasingly insidious, as it spreads to our bodies. The dangers it poses to biodiversity and human health are so obvious that they should prompt us to act without delay and in an effective manner. However, the motion for a resolution that you are proposing to adopt is an easy one; In addition, it comes at the end of a parliamentary term that has lacked ambition. I do not want to say that this text does not require any work, that the subjects covered are not important or that the consensus it raises in this House is of no value. But when I read it, I cannot help but hear Greta Thunberg in my head, speaking to all of us, political leaders, denouncing the blabla in this area at the UN Youth Climate Summit in September. We are debating the adoption of a resolution calling on the Government to "consider a national plan on plastics" and to make an ambitious voice heard at the international level. Ladies and gentlemen, why not take advantage of the five years of your mandate to defend genuine reforms, effective measures, across our country? We could thus have set an example and gained credibility at the international level. Should I remind you that you have set the end of the placing on the market of single-use plastic packaging at 2040? Let me stress, however, that in view of the climate emergency, the Citizens' Climate Convention had called for an end to it by 2023. The difference is 17 long years; By the way, I note that the promise of the Head of State to put the proposals to the vote "without a filter". I dare not take out the calculator to estimate how many thousands of tons of plastic waste we could have saved ourselves. I've heard your speeches on bans in recent years. It is true that plastic bags and cotton-tiges with a plastic stick, in particular, have disappeared from the shelves of the shops. It's a good start. But some of these prohibitions had been passed in the previous legislature. As for plastic straws, it was planned to ban them from 2020, before you decided to postpone the reform for a year. Voting laws is one thing; ensuring that they are implemented is another. The NGO No Plastic In My Sea, for example, was concerned a few days ago about the lack of enforcement of the AGEC legislation on the use of single-use plastics in catering, including fast food. Thus, 70% of restorers would refuse reusable containers brought by their customers, in particular because of a lack of knowledge of the legislation. It is urgent to break with the ecology of posture, speeches, which Greta Thunberg rightly denounces. We don't have time! As parliamentarians, we have real room for manoeuvre to change the practices of industrialists on the one hand, and to help our fellow citizens change their consumption patterns and habits on the other. Why rely on a text whose scope is merely symbolic? Why not take advantage of your legislative time to move forward on the substance, with the law, by proposing new, more ambitious and proactive reforms, or simply by giving you the means to enforce the laws already passed? We are at the foot of the wall, with plastic waste already in our bodies, and we are therefore forced to act even faster and stronger. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group, which I had the honour of co-chairing last year, has always been a force for proposals on these issues. You could have supported us in these fights. You didn't. I therefore repeat: our biodiversity deserves better; our health deserves better; Our children deserve better than speeches and good intentions!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u243	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u244	Thank you for this invitation to discuss a cause that has been widely mobilized since the beginning of the quinquennium, especially in recent years. Plastic pollution is a scourge; It is found in the seas, oceans and all rivers, making it a global threat and the planet's first enemy in terms of biodiversity. Against this pollution, the Government is pursuing an ambitious policy of combating it at the national, European and international levels. However, the fight is far from being won, which makes it necessary for mobilization times such as this one, when the National Assembly expresses a very strong voice. It is estimated that by 2040 the production of plastics will have doubled, and the annual discharge of plastic waste into the oceans will triple. Unfortunately, the consequences are very real. Every year, 100,000 marine mammals die from plastic waste. And our extraordinary biodiversity is not the only victim of this pollution; We ourselves eat the equivalent of a microplastic blue card every week, according to estimates. This can't last any longer; We don't solve it. The fight against plastic pollution is therefore an environmental priority, a major health issue and a moral imperative for respect for marine fauna. I would therefore like to thank the Members who initiated this motion for a resolution, which is the result of the information report by Senator Angèle Préville and MP Philippe Bolo. Thank you for speaking on behalf of the OPECST so loudly. I also welcome the work of the information mission on endocrine disruptors in plastic containers, chaired by Michel Vialay, of which Lauriane Rossi and Claire Pitollat were rapporteur. The work on this subject is now comprehensive and very well documented. Finally, I welcome the fact that this motion for a resolution has been largely co-signed, in a trans-partisan manner. In this area, I know that we can count on a broad consensus. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we share our commitment to an ambitious policy to combat plastic pollution. This has been reflected at the national level in the adoption of major measures. Two important laws were passed during the quinquennium: the AGEC law and its complement, the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, known as climate and resilience, which you voted for this summer. They have taken us a course in the fight against plastic pollution. Upstream, we act to limit the use of disposable plastics. We are aiming for the gradual disappearance of disposable plastic by 2040. This may seem distant, but it is one of the most ambitious trajectories in Europe and we have already begun to follow it. Since January 2020, disposable plastic cups, glasses and plates have been banned. Since 1 January 2021, other disposable daily products have been banned from stores in their plastic form, including straws, cutlery, beverage covers, confetti and expanded polystyrene boxes. It's not over: on January 1, 2022, plastic packaging that covers fruits and vegetables will also be prohibited, except for exceptions – films, boxes and other plastic nets will be finished. In two years, from 1 January 2023, fast-foods will use reusable dishes for on-site consumption. To go even further, in the decree called 3R – reduce, reuse, recycle – published in April 2021, we set the goal of reducing single-use plastic packaging by 20% by 2025. I would add that the 3R strategy in which he is involved is currently being developed. It will be published in early 2022 and may be revised every five years. The "climate and resilience" law tends to develop bulk sales, in order to limit packaging. Thus, by 2030, 20% of products sold in medium and large areas will have to be sold without packaging. Because we cannot completely eliminate packaging, we also act downstream on recycling: we set the ambitious goal of recycling 100% plastic in 2025. But we are still far from it: of the 3 million tonnes of plastic waste we produce each year, less than a third is collected for recycling. Worse, recycling is far from being systematically completed: out of 1 million tonnes of plastics currently collected, only 300,000 tonnes are reincorporated into new products. That is why this year we have reinforced the bonus for packaging that incorporates recycled plastic. To go even further, €370 million will be added to the recycling component of the investment programme for the future, PIA 4, in order to accelerate its development, for plastic and other everyday materials. The resources allocated are therefore unprecedented. With regard to marine biodiversity, in 2020 we presented a Zero Plastic Waste at Sea Plan, which aims to achieve this target by 2025. It comprises thirty-five actions to take action prior to the dumping of waste at sea. It is essential to take into account the land-sea continuum, since 80% of the waste found at sea comes from the land; It is absolutely necessary to reduce these volumes. As you understand, our strategy to remove plastic within our borders focuses on packaging, as they account for 40% of plastic production, but 65% of waste. It tends to satisfy the first recommendation of the motion for a resolution, which aims to envisage a national plan on plastics. The authors of the proposal also encourage us to establish a financial mechanism to support recycled plastics. We have adopted mechanisms, which I have mentioned, to go in this direction. The effort must probably be stepped up, but at European level, because the fight against plastic pollution knows no borders. There is a need to harmonize the rules to strengthen our action; For that, we must act at the international level. At European level, the introduction of the plastic contribution from this year 2021 is a step forward. In particular, it must finance part of the European Union's recovery plan, but it is mainly intended to encourage Member States to recycle more. The aim is, of course, that in the long run, its revenue will be reduced by improving the recycling capacity of all European states. The sponsors of the motion for a resolution call on us to support the extension of the list of restrictions in the REACH Regulation to microplastics added intentionally. We fully share this proposal. You also encourage us to work with our European partners to ensure that a microplastic parameter is integrated into the process of assessing the good ecological status of aquatic environments, with the Water Framework Directive. I am quite in favour of it – you can imagine how much. However, we need to strengthen our standardized method for measuring and assessing the dangers of microplastics. This is why an action dedicated to the measurement of microplastics was added at the end of 2019 to the Micropollutant Plan, in order to define reliable methods of analysis. A call for expressions of interest on research projects is being developed, with a budget of €600,000, in order to better understand the processes of transfer and storage of microplastics in water and soil. In parallel, standardization work continues within the various dedicated committees of the French Standards Association (AFNOR) and the European Committee for Standardization (CEN). At the international level, marine plastic waste is not subject to any global binding arrangements and the solutions applied are fragmented. The Government is convinced that we must provide an ambitious, comprehensive and coordinated response to this challenge; This requires the adoption of a new legally binding global agreement. This agreement should enable countries to implement action plans to prevent, reduce and eliminate plastic pollution, in a clear and common vision, with ambitious and measurable targets and appropriate indicators. This is the position France will defend during the forthcoming negotiations at the Fifth United Nations Environment Assembly in Nairobi at the end of February 2022. I will have the honour of holding the vice-chairmanship and will defend the adoption of a resolution launching the work of an intergovernmental committee to draft a treaty on plastics. With the One Ocean Summit announced by the President of the Republic, to be held in Brest on 12 February, we will once again have a major opportunity to unite as many countries as possible around this objective and this draft resolution. The aim is to unite as widely as possible around the very complex subject of marine plastic waste, by considering measures for the whole life cycle of plastics. This is in line with your ambition to have a binding international legal framework to limit this pollution. With regard to the problem of cross-border shipments of waste, the Basel Convention was reviewed in early 2021 to narrowly strengthen the provisions governing exports of plastic waste to countries outside the OECD. We therefore have a timetable and a set of answers that echo the motion for a resolution presented today. The intention of the United States to join the countries in favour of a global agreement on plastic pollution, announced by Antony Blinken on 18 November, is obviously very good news for the ambition and dimension of the forthcoming treaty. The resolution also mentions the specific situation of the Mediterranean Sea; The Government is particularly sensitive. The Mediterranean Sea is the largest semi-closed sea in the world, with 2.5 million km2. It is home to an absolutely remarkable biodiversity: coral reefs, coastal lagoons, Posidonia herbariums and exceptional marine mammals. While it accounts for less than 1% of the ocean's surface area, it is one of the richest biodiversity seas in the world, with more than 17,000 species listed. This wealth is threatened, among other things by plastic pollution: 40% of marine species are considered to be declining in the Mediterranean. That is why the President of the Republic initiated, at the One Planet Summit last January entirely dedicated to biodiversity, the action plan for an exemplary Mediterranean in 2030 – the PAMEx. This plan was launched in September at the World Conservation Congress in Marseille, with nine countries in the Mediterranean basin: France, Spain, Italy, Morocco, Algeria, Monaco, Greece, Portugal and Egypt. We once again have a coalition committed to phasing out single-use plastics that are most harmful to the environment and to promoting sustainable alternatives to plastics products. We are also committed to strengthening the collection and recycling of plastic waste, including by financing new recycling plants by 2030. The components of the France Recovery and France 2030 plans will make it possible to finance the necessary equipment and improvements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The fight against plastic pollution is a priority for France, on all scales. In the coming years, protecting the planet will require ambitious efforts to combat this scourge, which threatens not only man, but all species. To do so, we must mobilize each other; This is essential, and you are saying it today as parliamentarians. Parliament is honoured to defend this motion for a resolution; The Government is following him and fully supports him.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u245	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u246	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 25 Number of votes cast 25 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 25 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2021-11-29-O1076.u247	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion, at second reading, of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
