ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence (No. 4104, 4153, 4185).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u2	I call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u3	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u4	In view of the objective of preventing acts of terrorism pursued by Article 1, I regret that several of my amendments have once again been found inadmissible. I am thinking in particular of two of them. The first was aimed at depriving all jihadists who had been naturalized in France and who committed terrorist acts abroad of their nationality. I know that the deprivation of nationality has given rise to a lot of ink and has been the source of many crises, but for my part I was one of the first to say that French perpetrators of terrorist acts must be deprived of their nationality. I believe that individuals who, after acquiring our nationality, offend our values, massacre children and dream of a universal caliphate, have nothing more French. The possibility of depriving French naturalized persons of their nationality is provided for in Article 25 of the Civil Code, and it would be an insult to the martyred, killed and raped populations outside our borders to suggest that certain acts justifying the deprivation of nationality when committed in France are not punished in the same way when committed abroad – as if this circumstance made them less atrocious. My second amendment was to suspend the payment of family allowances to families whose dependent children had been convicted of terrorism and who had failed to fulfil their parental duty of education. As I said before, no child is born jihadist, everything is in education. If, in certain circumstances, parents may be out-of-date – then it is out of the question of depriving them of family allowances – the law must establish barriers and allow us to have the assurance that parents are taking on their responsibilities. The minimum consideration that can be expected from parents who receive family allowances from France is to ensure that they do not raise their child by encouraging him to become a terrorist.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u5	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u6	The La France insoumise group will oppose Article 1, which aims to perpetuate the measures of the 2017 law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism (SILT), to which we were already opposed at the time. I attended the presentation by Minister Castaner of the first of the reports to which the implementation of the Act was intended to give rise. I don't know if this report was written on a tabletop, but one thing is for sure, that accountability to parliamentarians was not the prime objective of the minister! We had first received a draft report at the end of which proposals were made, including that of excluding the judge from freedoms and detention (JLD) in certain proceedings; The second version lacked some elements, particularly qualitative ones. In the absence of any convincing feedback, I do not see why we should continue to take action on the basis of the good faith of the minister – who, in my view, is in no way a criterion of admissibility – and much less on the advice of the parliamentary intelligence delegation, of which we are not a member. As long as you continue to say that the parliamentary delegation to intelligence should not be composed of the entire political groups – you say that we never propose anything, but we have tabled an amendment to that effect – I do not see why we should be satisfied with the few pieces of information that are provided to us, the elements that are most often truncated when they are not simply absent because, apparently, we do not have to know them. According to the few elements brought to our knowledge, some prefects would have misapplied the security perimeters – you yourself acknowledged it, minister. This was particularly the case at the port of Dunkirk, it seems to me, but I do not think that the prefect of the department of the North, for whom I have a great deal of esteem, could have misunderstood the instructions of the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u7	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 209, 247 and 307, aimed at the deletion of Article 1. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u8	As I said in defending the previous rejection motion, some have criticized me for not referring to Islamist jihadism, or at least political Islam, violent and combatant, as the central problem. In fact, this issue is indeed central, but it is not the only question. Unless I have understood nothing, we are not looking at a text aimed only at Islamist terrorism, but at a text aimed at all forms of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u9	That's 100 percent of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u10	What other terrorism?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u11	How can we say that 100 per cent of terrorism is Islamist, when we know that a short time ago, has fortunately been thwarted by an extreme right-wing attack against a minister? While some threats are greater than others, all are to be taken seriously, and differentiated legal treatment cannot be considered. Of course, from an operational point of view, we must stick to the threat, and that is what the intelligence services are doing, but they have always worked in this way and will continue to do so. I believe that there is room for further judicialization of the procedures and, from this point of view, the fact that the recent attack on a police officer in La Chapelle-sur-Erdre, near Nantes, was not treated as a terrorist attack and did not give rise to an immediate takeover by the National Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor's Office (PNAT), must make us reflect on this habit of putting the term "terrorism" in all sauces, without always having any evidence to justify its use. What I mean is that we must adapt the means to the threat, not attempt to systematically adapt the right to that threat. For all these reasons, we are opposed to section 1, which seeks to perpetuate the measures provided for in the SILT Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u12	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u13	This amendment tabled by our colleague Delphine Bagarry and co-signed by the Members of the group Ecology democracy solidarity (EDS) also proposes the deletion of Article 1: if we accept that certain provisions of the SILT law must be extended, we do not want these provisions to be incorporated into positive law, as they extend the powers of administrative authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u14	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 307.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u15	The GDR Group also wants Article 1 to be deleted. Indeed, the proposed sustainability confirms the fear, which we have expressed for several years, of normalizing so-called exceptional measures. Let us keep in mind that the two-year state of emergency against terrorism – from 2015 to 2017 – resulted in the inclusion in the common law of measures stemming from the SILT law, originally supposed to constitute emergency measures. This law introduces into the ordinary law mechanisms and procedures which, until now, were provided for only by the Act of 3 April 1955 on a state of emergency. We have alerted this drift and denounced a movement, initiated for several years, to tighten up the repressive and administrative arsenal in the fight against terrorism. In the face of this development, a question seems essential to us: is the proliferation of repressive texts effective in the fight against terrorism? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u16	Not at all, it makes it possible to foil attacks!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u17	Since there has been no comprehensive and detailed assessment of the effectiveness of the numerous anti-terrorist laws adopted in recent years, we reject the continued strengthening of the powers of the administrative authority and the pre-emptive repression of behaviour considered to be potentially dangerous. We believe that we must rely on common law legislation to address international and domestic terrorism in a thoughtful and long-term manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u18	Mr Raphaël Gauvain, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u19	In support of these deletion amendments, I heard that there would have been no reports on the application of the SILT law, which would have been insufficiently evaluated. I would remind you that in 2017, we adopted in the Committee on Laws a stronger parliamentary oversight, under which all the administrative acts under the four measures that can be implemented under the law – in particular the decisions taken by the prefects – are transmitted every week to Parliament. The president of the Law Committee, as well as a member of the majority – I myself, in this case – and a member of the opposition – Eric Ciotti – are responsible for monitoring the action of the Government through these acts. Mr. Bernalicis said that he was probably misused at the protection perimeters at Dunkirk Harbour. In fact, the question also arose for Lille Europe station and, in both cases, it was thanks to the remarks addressed to the Ministry of the Interior by the three of us, following a visit to the premises with the prefect in order to observe the conditions for the implementation of the device, that the administration ceased to misuse the technique of the protection perimeters – which, I would remind you, had been voted by Parliament. Since 2017, the Chair of the Law Commission, Éric Ciotti and I have done daily evaluation work. The same work has been done in the Senate, and the common stocktaking we are drawing from it is very positive. If we are to fight terrorism effectively, we must allow the administration to make use of these measures, under the control of Parliament. That is why you are being asked in this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u20	Trust me?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u21	...to extend certain provisions of the SILT Act. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u22	The Minister for the Interior has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u23	I also express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments to delete Article 1, which is very important. Without repeating what the rapporteur said very well, I would like to point out that the statistics transmitted to the Committee on Laws showed that the first year was very different from those which followed. On the other hand, there has been no remedy against these measures, although many have been taken. To be exact, there was an appeal, filed by a lawyer in the court where he was practising, on the ground that he had been subjected to a visual inspection of his professional briefcase as part of the establishment of a protective perimeter – a single remedy, which, you will agree, is very little for a measure that you consider to be totally deprived of liberty! I would ask you to show some measure in your remarks, especially since, as the rapporteur has said, it is now wisely and in accordance with the spirit of the law that all prefects implement the measures adopted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u24	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u25	Perhaps you are only talking about the scope of protection, minister, but the SILT Act provides for three other measures, namely home visits, house arrest and seizure – and in total, the four measures covered by section 1 have given rise to more recourse than you say. With regard to litigation, individuals seeking recourse to these measures very frequently lose their rights because they have very few elements to assert their rights in the face of the blank notes and the means of information they are opposed to. The same applies to judges, who have virtually no access to contradictory information, and this situation explains why the case law is largely in favour of implementing the measures we refer to. Little parenthesis: the JLD censored two or three measures that seemed a little too infringing on individual freedoms – this is the small guarantee set out in the text. However, I recall that the JLD is a judicial judge, who intervenes in this case in an administrative procedure – this is not a detail: it is even very important for those who defend the separation of powers. The question is not whether the SILT measures have been used: we know that they have been used; Parliamentary scrutiny has taken place and you have provided action. The question is how we could have acted differently, either within the judicial framework or within the administrative framework that preceded the SILT Act and the state of emergency of 2015. Because, before 2015, our intelligence services were working: they were doing a lot of intelligence! Of course, they were not as frank as they were today, but were they destitute, and could they not do anything? Are you saying that before 2015, the intelligence was cat pee? That's obviously not true: he knows how to work! It is true, however, that a judicial procedure imposes constraints – equality of arms, adversarial proceedings, trials, accountability: I understand that it disturbs and lengthens deadlines, but it is more respectful.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u26	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u27	I want to restore the truth of the case and of the facts: this is not a judicial procedure in an administrative procedure, Mr Bernalicis, but a judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u28	No, it's an administrative procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u29	On the contrary, it is a judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u30	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u31	When the prefect wishes to carry out what might be called a former administrative search, a house visit, he makes a reasoned request and the debate takes place before the JLD, which is a judicial judge. This is therefore a judicial procedure. Contrary to what you say, Mr. Bernalicis, the refusal rate is close to 15%. Where the prefect does not submit a sufficiently reasoned dossier in accordance with the criteria which Parliament has voted on, his request shall be rejected. I repeat, this is indeed a judicial procedure. Nor can I allow you to say that administrative procedures are conducted outside the rule of law. In judicial proceedings, the judge intervenes upstream and gives the authorization to carry out the measure, while in an administrative procedure – which is in no way outside the rule of law, since the administrative judge is independent – the appeal takes place ex post: this is the only difference. In the case of individual administrative control and supervision measures (MICAS), in particular, an adversarial debate shall take place before the administrative judge. If, in the light of the criteria that Parliament has voted for, the administration does not provide sufficient elements – your famous white notes – the decision is broken.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u32	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u33	You have just put forward various arguments, Mr rapporteur, to clarify the legal framework within which the administrative judge or the judicial judge intervenes: this proves that the measures in question are particularly important – we cannot do anything. They are even particularly detrimental to the fundamental freedoms that govern our rule of law. We propose to maintain the experimental nature of the provisions of the SILT Act: the deadline set out in the bill, as of July 31, 2021, would thus be extended until December 31, 2021. This would allow us to analyse the developments that will take place – because we still hope to get out of the state of terrorism that manifests itself in the commission of certain acts. Let us maintain these provisions only as long as they are useful, rather than enshrine them definitively in law, whereas necessity does not impose it. In another area, an experimental device such as the long-term unemployed zero-territories, for example, has proved its effectiveness, but has not been sustained: it is always an experiment. The inclusion of measures that violate fundamental freedoms in ordinary law raises a real question. The Socialist and related group therefore proposes that their experimental character be extended, rather than repealed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u34	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u35	The system we had put in place was exceptional in nature: under a sunset clause, we went from the state of emergency to the SILT law with a two-year experiment. The monitoring we have made of it and the results we have drawn from it show that it is sufficiently supervised and very useful. That is why we propose to make it final, while maintaining a very important element, which we voted in 2017: enhanced parliamentary control. This control will remain with the sustainability of the SILT law: the administration will always have the obligation to transmit to Parliament all the individual acts taken under the said law. We will be able to continue our monitoring work, make the necessary travel and prepare annual reports. Parliament – which makes the law and can undo it – will be able to submit proposals and make changes at any time. On the other hand, it would be difficult to come back to Parliament every six months – especially since there will be a problem with a parliamentary timetable. Rather, the solution is to sustain the system, while maintaining stronger parliamentary control that will achieve the objective you are seeking. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u36	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u37	I do not understand very well the comparison that you make between the device that is being discussed here and the experiment Territories zero long-term unemployed, Mrs Karamanli, unless it is only a question of pointing out that neither is included in the common law – we are proposing to do so precisely for the provisions of the SILT law. To think that we will solve the problem of Islamist terrorism in a few months would be to lie to our compatriots: it is the fight of at least one generation. Born in 1982, I experienced the attacks of the years 1995 that touched the heart of Paris, the Saint-Michel metro or the FNAC – everyone remembers it. Linked to the black decade that struck Algeria, these attacks can be described as first-generation Islamists. Then, at the age of 20, I saw the twin towers collapse in New York, and I witnessed the beginning of a second wave of Islamist terrorist attacks, this time commanded by outside agents, including Osama Bin Laden. When I reached 30, it was the Bataclan attacks – this third wave actually began with Mohamed Merah's attack on a Jewish school in Toulouse, and continued until the end of President Holland's quinquennium, resulting in mass killings exported by a self-proclaimed Islamist state. The fourth generation of terrorism – the one I live at the age of 40, now that I am in charge – is an endogenous threat, caused by self-radicalization within our country. What will be the fifth generation? Who can think that what is happening right now in Mali, in the Sahelo-Saharan band, in Afghanistan and, in general, in the places of radicalization of Western societies, will have no consequence? Let us think of the very hard crisis that affects part of the Sunni world. All this will not be resolved in a few months, thanks to some national measures. This bill is only a stone in the general building, the struggle of the world against people whose radical ideas will not be defeated in a few words, by a few measures and with a few means. Thinking that we can live tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or the end of the current quinquennium, apart from the measures we need today, would be a child's dream. We must certainly try to achieve this, but this will not be achieved through a single piece of legislation. It would not be right to maintain the experimental nature of measures, which – we must tell the French – we will need many years. I wish only one thing, that our political generation – in the general sense of the word – do this difficult work and that our children do not have to undergo new waves of terrorism, because we have veiled our faces and have not put words on things.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u38	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 284 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u39	Its purpose is to remove the provision to limit the renewable nature of security perimeters. In the mechanism proposed to us, it will indeed be much more difficult to renew them. That is why I propose to delete Article 1a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u40	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u41	The mechanism proposed in Article 1a, adopted in committee, comes directly from the work we have carried out together, in particular concerning the possible misuse by the administration of the security perimeters at Lille Europe station and at the port of Dunkirk – I mentioned earlier. Thanks to the SILT law, the administration can establish security perimeters for an event – Cannes Festival, Strasbourg Christmas Market... – or a place. The risk is that the administration will not use this system without a time limit – we had this debate in 2017. Moreover, the Council of State had advocated such a limitation in order to respect the constitutional balance. That is why I and the Chair of the Committee on Laws tabled an amendment in committee to regulate the arrangements and to strengthen the institutional balance, limiting the length of the security perimeters for the premises to one month. Moreover, the administration is not devoid of the means to act. It has stopped using the security perimeters at the port of Dunkirk and Lille Europe station, but has used other means provided for by the Code of Internal Security. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u42	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u43	It is also unfavourable, but for slightly different reasons than the rapporteur. It seems to me that the first part of Mr. Ciotti's proposal should be reworked within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle, in connection with the Government. However, I am aware that Article 1a has been added by the committee, Mr rapporteur – we have had this debate. Mr Ciotti's proposal has the advantage of giving administrative police weapons to the Minister of the Interior and the Prefect in certain exceptional cases, when the renewal of the security perimeter is not enough. I would point out that these are extremely limited cases: twenty-seven renewal applications were filed in the first year, and less than ten the following year – the average duration of the security perimeters granted was five days. So we are far from a need of more than sixty days. However, such a need may arise in particular moments – we do not know what will be done tomorrow – and the law is not intended to be changed under emotion: the legislator must strive to foresee the future. I also understand that a constitutional difficulty may arise. Therefore, my opinion is unfavourable, not in principle, but in the interests of the proper construction of the law. These are precisely the measures that you want to remove in the second part of your proposal, Mr Ciotti, which the Council of State is asking for to validate the mechanism that we are presenting. If we remove them, we would certainly be censored – we can regret it, but we are here to make the ordinary law – and there would be nothing worse, agree. We must therefore keep in mind what the rapporteur says on Article 1a, that is to say, a framework for measures which cannot be renewed ad vitam aeternam, but also, as I have already explained in committee, provide for the possibility of regulating things in an exceptional way. I invite you to withdraw your amendment and rework it with the Government, the rapporteur and the Senate. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u44	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u45	On the substance, the conclusion of your argument would argue that you should give a favourable opinion to my amendment, which is precisely to give the administrative authority, as you have pointed out, tools to facilitate its approach to protection. We had examined the situation at Dunkirk port and Lille Europe station in the context of the report that we drafted and the hearings that we held, and we had questioned your predecessor, who had given us very relevant substantive arguments. What is important is to have an ease of action. You are raising the risk of censorship by the Constitutional Council, but I believe that you have submitted this bill to the advice of the Council of State. The provision has been amended in committee and it has been written by you. However, at this stage, you did not raise this risk. I therefore do not understand why, since the vote on this amendment in committee, there has been a risk that you have not previously pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u46	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u47	The current wording of paragraph 3 of Article 1e r bis does not allow the administrative authority to have free hands to extend, where necessary, the measure of establishing a protective perimeter of a sensitive location. It seems paradoxical to propose a general framework for a measure which must nevertheless be adapted on a case-by-case basis. It would indeed be disproportionate not to prolong the closure of a radical mosque, which has been shown to be a fertile ground for the development of radical Islamism and its corollary, Islamic terrorist acts, which I would like to recall as the only form of terrorism on our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u49	Unfavourable notice for the same reasons as above.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u51	With regard to the last point, and regardless of the places of worship you speak of, the text against separatism gives the means that you refer to. When we close places of worship, in accordance with the SILT law, it is only on the sole condition that they are directly linked to the spread of terrorism by encouraging, in particular, such an act – which is part of the radical ideology that we must fight elsewhere and which undoubtedly participates in the atmosphere that we all wish to denounce. However, your last sentence is not entirely accurate. Of course, as I said in the rostrum, the terrorist attacks that have shed blood are Islamist terrorist attacks, but it is wrong to say that the terrorist threats that affect us come exclusively from there. That is why the measures we are taking do not concern a type of person. The press is echoing, more than I can do, as I am bound to some confidentiality, by ultra-left or ultra-right people who wanted to commit blood crimes and who have been arrested through counter-terrorism measures. I can testify that it exists. Thanks to the action of our services, they have not succeeded in accomplishing their mischief. Everyone knows that people registered for radicalization are not only for religious reasons, but public debate often confuses the different motives. That is what I wanted to say, because it is important for those who listen to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u52	I call Mr Eric Ciotti to support Amendment No. 339, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1a.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u53	Currently, an area of protection may be created by the administrative authority if the event or place is exposed to a risk of terrorist acts because of its nature or the scale of the event, such as a major cultural or sporting event. I propose to extend the criteria for making a protection order in the event of a disturbance to public safety and order. More tools would allow for greater flexibility for administrative authority and, ultimately, for the protection of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u54	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u55	We are at the heart of the constitutional balance. Since in 2017 measures under the state of emergency were included in the ordinary law, safeguards had to be provided. One of the essential guarantees that had been raised by the Council of State and recalled by the two decisions of the Constitutional Council was that the implementation of these four measures was limited to the terrorist nature of the threat. In essence, your amendment, disconnected from this terrorist nature, would be unconstitutional. That is why I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u56	I have before me two amendments, Nos 283 and 219, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u57	It aims to facilitate the intervention of law enforcement agencies in the service of better protection of our citizens in the security perimeters. In these perimeters, it is permitted to carry out both security palpations, visual inspection and baggage searches. But these palpations and searches can only be carried out with the consent of the person subject to these checks. I therefore propose to remove consent, since, in the area of terrorism, we are faced with people who may be at risk. The fact of asking these people for their consent seems to me to deprive our forces of order of an important latitude to better protect the French and all those who attend these events. You will no doubt object to the risk of censorship by the Constitutional Council: this debate will take place on a recurring basis. That is why I am proposing, as I said in committee, a major constitutional reform that raises our level of protection because, given the seriousness of the threat, we cannot hide behind the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which is increasingly restrictive in terms of security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u58	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 219.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u59	In keeping with what my colleague Éric Ciotti has just said, we know that, in order to ensure the security of an event exposed to a significant terrorist risk, the representative of the State or the police commissioner when it comes to Paris can, by reasoned order, set up a protective perimeter within which access to the movement of persons will be regulated. A controlled officer may carry out checks, palpations, visual inspection or baggage searches only with the consent of the person. All of this is well regulated, since such checks must be carried out, inter alia, by a person of the same sex. However, it is essential to amend the current wording of article L. 226-1 of the Code of Internal Security because searches must be possible without the consent of the person. This is an obvious, common sense measure. If someone shows up with an explosive belt, it's not possible to let her go. Of course, we will be objected to that the measure would not be constitutional. It therefore seems obvious that the Constitution must be amended. When entering a sensitive area, one must be searched, with or without the consent of the person, as is done in all countries facing this type of threat. Conditioning the visual inspection and the search of the baggage of the person who has been checked with the consent of the person is tantamount to cancelling the total effectiveness of the check. This is a trans-party question: it goes beyond all the political divisions of this House. We need to be able to change the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u61	I am against this amendment, not for constitutional reasons, but to respect what the Senate has done. I remember very well that, at the Joint Joint Committee in 2017, it was Mr.Philippe Bas, the chairman of the Senate's Law Committee, who requested that the safety palpation be accompanied by the consent of the person. I would add that in practice, contrary to what you say, the person who refuses to be searched is not allowed to leave. In fact, the text provides that a person who refuses a safety palpation may not enter the security perimeter or be taken outside. The Code of Criminal Procedure also provides that judicial police officers (OPJ) may at any time carry out an identity check, thus detaining for 30 minutes the person who refuses the palpation to verify his identity, or even, if the spirits warm up or if the OPJ have clues, putting in place a measure of police custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u62	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 368 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u63	Before I defend this amendment, let me regret that the caudine forks on the admissibility of the amendments have been reduced to this point. How does an amendment on provisions on the prohibition of the residence of foreign terrorists in the national territory have no connection, even indirectly, with the text dealing with the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence? I can't, alas! I regret not being able to propose measures which, in common sense, seem to us both relevant and effective in reducing the risk of terrorism in our country. I turn to Amendment No 368, which is corrected, which deals with controls within a protective perimeter established by the authorities. Denying such controls, as the law allows, is not an insignificant act. Generally, honest people do not refuse this control and remain anonymous. That is why we believe that this refusal must be justified. Thus, we propose that, in case of refusal, an identity check should be carried out systematically without any possible escape.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u65	I think I have already pointed out that what you are proposing is already provided for in the legislation. Article 78-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that, at any time, an OPJ may carry out an identity check and detain the person for 30 minutes. Similarly, in case of suspicion of preparation of an offence, the person concerned may be taken into custody. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, because it is already satisfied. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u67	I am trying to understand what is behind your amendment, Madam Member, because I do not see very well what is in the interest of the provision you are proposing. Unless you are prepared to accept that an identity check can be carried out without the consent of the public prosecutor and outside the judicial process? As you know, in France, an identity check can only be carried out under the authority of the public prosecutor, or when something serious has just happened a few metres from the police services. In the case of a refusal to submit to a palpation, neither of these options shall apply. Either the public prosecutor authorizes the police and gendarmes to check the identity of a person and they can do so even before they have refused a palpation to enter, or an identity check takes place because something serious has just been done and regardless of whether or not the palpation has been refused. Your amendment is therefore not so trivial. I will also go back to the political scope of your presentation of your amendment, Madam Member. You mentioned the inadmissibility of another of your amendments. I do not know what its purpose was: fortunately, in the name of the separation of powers, the Government does not interfere. As far as this amendment, of which Mrs Le Pen is the first signatory, if I understand your demonstration correctly, its purpose is to determine whether the persons who refuse to search are foreign. What, then, could an identity check be used for if it is not to know whether the person is a foreigner? Anyway, I wanted to tell you that carrying out this identity check wouldn't give us much. Take the example of the attack on the Stade de France. In considering the comprehensive security bill, we praised the courage of the private security officers who were there and who contribute to the protection of our territory. As far as I can remember, because I was not a minister at the time – we were under another government – a security officer wanted to stop someone from entering the Stade de France and make his prior palpation. The person in question refused and got blown up, causing death with her – I probably caricature widely what happened. However, I am not sure that the identity control tool would be very dissuasive to a person with malicious intentions and a bomb or a weapon. Nor would carrying out this identity check be very safe for the person responsible for doing so, who is not, moreover, most often a police officer or a gendarmerie: he is a private security officer. That is why I believe that you would catch anything except what you want if this amendment were to be adopted. And by rejecting it, we are not naive: we consider it totally inept. If someone has malicious intentions, wants to commit a terrorist attack within a perimeter of protection and refuses a palpation, it is better that he leave and not be blown up, rather than a private security officer or a police officer asking him for his identity. This would not give much and could cause him to blow himself up because his plan of attack would be a failure and he could get arrested. Furthermore, you say, Madam Member, that honest people do not refuse controls, but that is not entirely true. Many people refuse controls at the entrance of a protective perimeter because they have something else to hide than a terrorist project. For example, there are people who have drugs on them: you will agree that this can happen. They may think that the palpation they do not want to submit to is the fight against drugs and not the fight against terrorism. There are also people who refuse a palpation because they have a self-defense bomb on them. It is forbidden to have one on the street, but these people still hold one because they are afraid when they go out on the street: this can happen. Other people still have their knife on them, while, depending on the category to which it belongs, they may not have the right to do so: this can also happen. So you see, MP, what could happen if police officers and gendarmes controlled the identities of all those who refused a palpation in a place where there is a lot of people. On the arrival of the tour de France or I don't know what a great sporting event, it would take a large number of police officers and gendarmes to carry out these checks. The resulting agglutination would give terrorists a greater opportunity to reach a large number of people: never would enough police and gendarmes be gathered in one place. I therefore believe that your amendment, which was probably an appeal amendment, does not steal, as was said in the Finance Committee. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u68	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u69	I am not sure I understand your argument, Mr Minister, since the rapporteur has just explained to us that there is no point in removing the consent of the people, as they would be required, in the meantime, to check their identity if they refused a search, because it made them, in fact, suspicious. Article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure would apply, which allows an OPJ to verify the identity of a person if he or she is suspected of wanting to commit an offence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u70	It's a possibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u71	There is indeed Article 78-2-2 of the same Code but, let us not be afraid, Article 78-2 continues to exist and it is not always mandatory to act upon the request of the prosecutor of the Republic! As I know, security perimeters make it possible to carry out large-scale identity checks. The famous article 78-2-2 can, moreover, be used and reinforce the possibilities of controls. It can also be applied outside a security perimeter, as people who regularly participate in demonstrations – as I do – know perfectly well. You are referring to a choice made by the Senate, Mr.Rapporteur, but two weeks ago, in committee, you justified your opinion against this amendment by arguing that it was an unconstitutional provision. So you presented your opposition as a constitutional guarantee, but in the real world, in the end, a refusal of palpation turns well into an identity control. Thus, by a pass-by tower, your legal structure becomes constitutional. As a result, when you report for security screening, you are considered a suspect until you have been searched, which poses a fundamental problem. To return to identity checks, there are countries where the police are not allowed to do so on any street pass. This is particularly the case in Germany, and things are happening calmly. It is therefore necessary to stop making us believe that, because the National Assembly amendment is rejected, we do not have to worry and that it will not be possible to control the identity of anyone. Where I am joining you, Minister, is that, in the real world, we do not really control the identity of all those who refuse to submit to a palpation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u72	Thank you, Congressman. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u73	The real world is a concept!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u74	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u75	Minister, I must admit that I did not understand your argument either. Let's take a look at someone who wants to fly. Can we imagine getting on a plane by refusing a palpation or identity check? No! Because there have been terrible attacks, someone who wants to fly must undergo a palpation and security check. Let's cut the hair in four! Someone who wishes to enter a risk zone, identified as a problem, must not be able to refuse a palpation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u76	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u77	You'll tell me that this person can be arrested for 30 minutes, but that may not always be the case. What if fifty or a hundred people are to be set aside? Things seem to me to be so obvious... I dare not imagine that, tomorrow, a person who would not have had to be subjected to an identity check after refusing a palpation could go to commit an attack 200 meters further. We must take steps to strengthen our security! Perhaps there is a problem of constitutionality, but if so, we will have to amend our Constitution. We must not be able to refuse certain measures in an area at risk – this will be the subject of my next amendment. That seems obvious to me. I repeat, we cut the hair in four!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u79	Maybe I didn't speak well. I will give a different answer to the last two speakers. Mr Habib, what we are proposing, or rather what we are enduring with regard to the perimeters of protection, is exactly the same as what exists for air transport and that you have described. People who want to enter a perimeter must accept a palpation, just as those who want to fly must. Someone who doesn't want his baggage inspected and palpated can, but in this case, he doesn't take the plane. His identity is not checked if he suddenly remembers that he forgot to declare to customs two liters of additional whisky, that he holds narcotics, or that he is suddenly caught in a crisis of anxiety because he finds that he knows the guard and that he is in conflict with him. There are many reasons why a person may not want to be subjected to palpation, not all of which are terrorists. The person refuses, leaves and does not fly, but is not necessarily asked for his identity. The same applies to security perimeters. So let me tell you, honourable Member, that it is you who cut the hair in eight because, in this case, they have already been cut in four. As for you, Mr Bernalicis, I would like to say that the country where identity checks cannot be carried out without justification is France. Welcome! You know, we can't carry out an identity check, like that, on the street.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u80	Who knows?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u81	Similarly, the police and gendarmes cannot open the trunks of the vehicles without the request of the public prosecutor: only customs officers can open them. It is so true, Mr Bernalicis, that holding an identity card is not compulsory in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u82	But yes...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u83	So stop making it look like we're in a police state. We are in a great democracy where, precisely, it is always under judicial authority, sometimes delegated to JPOs, that identity checks can take place and that people can be taken to the police station, in case of serious suspicion of committing a crime or when certain measures have been taken by the prosecutor – knowing that a judge can see whether individual freedoms have been violated. Thus, this beautiful country that you evoke, and where the identity of people on the street is not systematically controlled, is called France. You should be glad!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u84	Go tell the Defender of Rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u85	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 264 and 356. Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u86	It is intended to supplement my previous amendment and to amend Article L. 226-1 of the Internal Security Code, as to condition the search of a person's vehicle at his or her consent is to cancel the effectiveness of the checks. In this regard, we know that the procedure is strictly regulated and that guarantees exist: the search must be carried out by a judicial police officer or, under his responsibility, by a judicial police officer or an assistant judicial police officer, and in the presence of the owner. Without inextremis intervention by the security forces, individual vehicles could have been used to carry out large-scale attacks. But someone whose vehicle you want to check can refuse, turn around and leave, which is a problem. It shall be possible to check a vehicle. If, on July 14, 2016, on the promenade of the English, the vehicle of the jihadist criminal who committed the attack could have been controlled, he might not have been able to act. We need to take steps to strengthen controls on vehicles that can be filled with explosives. Similarly, if the car bomb attack at Notre-Dame de Paris had not failed, an implausible tragedy could have taken place. I repeat, under very strict conditions and in the presence of the owner and an OPJ, we must be able to search a vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u87	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 356.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u88	Like Meyer Habib, I propose, by this amendment, that, in the perimeters of protection, consent is not necessary to carry out the search of the vehicles. As with the palpation and search of persons at the entrance to the protection perimeters, it is common sense that such consent is not necessary for the verification of vehicles. I understand, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, that other tools exist, such as Article 78(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure or identity checks, but I believe that the ability to search a vehicle without the consent of its owner would be relevant in order to facilitate checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u89	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u90	He's unfavorable. In this case, there is a constitutional limit to the search of vehicles. The Constitutional Council, in a decision dating back to 1995, considered that the vehicle is of the same status as the domicile and that it is therefore mandatory, in an administrative procedure, to obtain the consent of the person concerned to carry out his search.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u91	However, I repeat that in practice – and that is what matters – the person who seeks to enter a protective perimeter and refuses to search his vehicle is obviously denied entry. That is what the actors on the ground are telling us, and it is obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u92	Subsequently, as you pointed out, Mr Ciotti, in case of refusal, the JPOs have instruments of a judicial nature. In fact, in the event of a proven risk, the police may carry out identity checks and detain the person for 30 minutes or even detain him/her in police custody. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u93	I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 340, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u94	Article L. 226-1 of the Code of Internal Security provides that the period of validity of a prefectural order establishing a perimeter of protection may not exceed one month. This time limit seems unquestionably too short in view of the issues at stake and we therefore propose that it be extended to three months.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u96	We have just had the debate on the protection perimeters and the appropriate time limit for them, and we have adopted in committee a mechanism to better regulate the renewal of these perimeters. This amendment would nullify what we have adopted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u97	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 137 and 308, to delete Article 2. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u98	This deletion amendment is intended to alert the rapporteur by showing how delicate the measures taken on the basis of this bill are with regard to the observance of worship. The terrorist acts on our territory are, for the most part, the act of one and the same evil: a radical Islamism imported into our territory by the arrival in France of people who hate our country. Strengthening the powers of the administrative authorities to shut down the places where these radical people are living is essential, but this must not be done to the detriment of the exercise of the cults that have lived in harmony for many years on French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u99	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u100	We propose, with this amendment, the deletion of Article 2, which allows the Prefect to order the closure of premises dependent on places of worship which are the subject of a closure measure if there are serious grounds for believing that they would be used for the same purposes, which would render the measure ineffective. Indeed, the scope of the mechanism is both broad and vague, and goes far beyond the objective of preventing and combating terrorism. While the administration already has the power to dissolve any association inciting the commission of terrorist acts, or to close any place that poses a threat to public order or security, the usefulness of the mechanism seems doubtful. Its opportunity raises all the more questions as the closure measure for places of worship was used only once in 2019 and once in 2020. As far as we are concerned, we had already opposed the administrative closure of places of worship under the SILT law, refusing to give the prefect a broad and unprecedented power of control over places of worship. We therefore call for the abolition of the extension of this measure, which disproportionately affects freedom of worship, justifies the closure of places of worship on too broad and imprecise criteria, does not adequately regulate this scheme and is concerned about the risk of discrimination against citizens of Muslim faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u102	Unfavorable opinion. This Article 2 is, in fact, directly suggested by the report drawn up with the chairman of the committee and Eric Ciotti. We realized that the closure of places of worship was very often bypassed, and the report therefore made a recommendation to make this closure much more operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u104	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u105	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u106	I do not, of course, agree with the rapporteur at all. The issue is essential, and concerns an administrative authority that is no longer a judicial authority. We have rejected the law that has already been passed in this regard because, at any time, when there are serious problems of terrorism, not all the faithful of a mosque must be penalized, but a justice effect must be aimed at those who communicate with terrorism. The question is still important!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u107	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u108	I would point out that, under the SILT Act, the closure of places of worship can only be temporary, limited to six months. This measure allows the minister of the interior to open a period of discussion with all the faithful, as you mentioned. At the end of this period, which is at most six months but may also last only three or four, the decision is most often reopening, with a change at the head of the association or replacing the imam. If, on the other hand, the administration has failed to put an end to the disturbances, another device comes to take over: the dissolution of the association.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u109	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u110	It aims to expand the conditions for the closure of a place of worship. Indeed, closing a place of worship, which has unfortunately proved to be a place of proselytism and the spread of ideas that have led to terrorism, is at the heart of the prevention of acts of terrorism. I remember what happened in the mosque that Mickaël Harpon, the murderer of the four police officers and officials of the Paris police prefecture, was seeing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u111	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u112	I chaired the commission of inquiry into this attack and we have worked very hard on this issue – I know you are convinced, Minister: it would be appropriate to extend the criteria for closure, which are now very restrictive, since they are limited to preventing the transition to terrorist acts. We could add to this criterion appropriately that of the statements made in these places of worship, of the ideas or theories disseminated therein and of the activities that take place there and are likely to provoke violence, hatred or discrimination. These elements are often the first fruits of an additional step. The text only makes it possible to intervene very late – probably too late. I therefore propose, with this amendment, to be much more determined and engaged in the closure of these places of worship, of which we know the danger and of which we know what threat they represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u114	Unfavorable opinion. As I have already pointed out, the requirement of the terrorist purpose for the four administrative measures taken on the basis of the SILT Act is at the heart of the constitutional balance. This was reiterated by the Council of State and the Constitutional Council on two occasions in its decisions of 2018 and 2019: to ensure the institutional balance by including these mechanisms in the ordinary law, there must be this terrorist purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u116	The rapporteur is right to tell you, honourable Member, that for eminently constitutional reasons, but which are not negative in this text, where it is a question of consolidating the measures that we are taking, the measures must have a direct connection with terrorism, which is the very object of this bill. However, the measure that you are proposing already exists, because it is exactly provided for in the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic and the fight against separatism, which we have adopted at first reading. It had also been validated by the Council of State and would probably be adopted before the final review of the text on terrorism. We lack measures to suspend activity and close a place of worship for a fixed period of time, and indeed renewable, provided that the theories and statements expressed in it create this atmosphere, which we all wish to combat, without leading directly to a terrorist act, but with an impression of separatism, in particular because it applies to it, whether it is Salafism or the one inspired by the Muslim Brotherhood. The measure is therefore found in the separatism law, and it is even there twice, because we have also planned, for the reasons of incitement to hatred that you refer to, the suspension or dissolution of associations. The legal structure, which may be dissolved or suspended, and the place, which may be closed, are therefore covered. The proposed provisions do not therefore need to be included in this text, where they would weaken those mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u117	I have before me four amendments, Nos 155, 222, 436 and 341, which may be the subject of a joint debate. Amendments Nos 155, 222 and 436 are identical. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u118	Today, the closure of places of worship where hatred is preached and people are lured into terrorism is limited to six months. The aim of the amendment is to remove this limit, because a place of worship must not be reopened automatically after a certain period of time, even if this time limit allows, as you will not fail to reply to us, certain investigations and other procedures: it must not be reopened until it is certain that the acts of hatred that took place there have been definitively eradicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u119	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u120	The Code of Internal Security provides that the closure of places of worship where incitement to violence, hatred and discrimination, or incitement to terrorism, may not exceed six months. But why six months? If it takes eight or nine months, or one year, it is necessary to be able to take them or, sometimes, to set a shorter duration. We must be able to reverse the burden of proof: as long as a place of worship has not brought tangible and convincing proof that it has changed at all, its reopening must not be possible. That sounds normal. We remember, for example, that the mosque in Pantin, which had relayed on its Facebook page a video hostile to Samuel Paty, shortly before his assassination, reopened after six months, because we were told that his leaders had changed. Still, the main imam of the mosque had been trained in Yemen in a fundamentalist institute, and his sermons were broadcast on a site that broadcast Salafist fatwas and Sheikh's comments. The Council of State itself refused the reopening before six months because it considered the mosque to be a rallying point for all individuals belonging to the jihadist movement. A kind of redemption is obviously possible and a mosque can change. The challenge is not to close a mosque, but to ensure that it no longer contains the hateful and jihadist content that led to its closure. That is what is important. It is simply about the security of the French. At the time of Samuel Paty's assassination, 72% of them were in favour of the closure of many Salafist places of worship. The closure should not be limited to six months, as this may sometimes be sufficient, but if it takes eight months or one year, it must also be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u121	Mr Nicolas Forissier's identical amendment No 436 is being defended. Amendment No 341 by Mr Eric Ciotti is also being defended. What is the committee's opinion on all the amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u122	Unfavorable. It is not a question of abolishing the possibility of temporarily closing places of worship, but it is absolutely necessary to set a limit since, in essence – we live in a state governed by the rule of law – freedom of worship is protected by the Constitution – perhaps some will find it a pity. In 2017, the Conseil d'État found that the six-month period provided for in the SILT Act appeared "proportional and appropriate". We had therefore followed his recommendations and maintained that balance. The assessment of the law, which the president of the law commission, Eric Ciotti and I have conducted, has shown that in practice, six months is largely sufficient: the closures of places of worship decided on the basis of the SILT law have never exceeded four, five or six months. The scheme allowed the prefects to temporarily close a place of worship if violations were found. But since freedom of worship is constitutionally protected, the prefect automatically engaged in a dialogue, which lasted three, four or five months, before a decision was taken: either there was a proven risk, and the association was dissolved – but the mechanism is then a little heavy; or guarantees were given, and the place of worship was reopened. The feedback we have had in evaluating the law shows that the system is working. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u124	I would like to reply to Mr Habib, with a view to clarifying the limits to what he wants, which are not simply constitutional. Making the decision to close a place of worship is very difficult, first of all because freedom of worship, even beyond its constitutional protection, is intimately linked to the very idea we have of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Mr. Bernalicis reminded the rostrum of the famous article of the Declaration, which states that "no one should be disturbed for his or her views, even religious".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u125	He's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u126	In France, the respect of believers, so that they can pray and live freely their worship, is a fundamental freedom recognized by the laws of the Republic. Thus, when we decide to close a place of worship, as when we touch upon freedom of association by deciding to dissolve it, we must do so – and it is quite normal – only with solid arguments that, beyond respect for the 1958 Constitution, must be in line with the spirit of the Enlightenment, the French Revolution and the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights. On the other hand, the length of closure must be proportionate, because freedom of worship is particularly protected and any measures to restrict it are weighed on a trip. Why decide on a closing period? Because the administration cannot decide on an ad vitam aeternam closure without deep reasons: today, the maximum duration of a closure is six months, which was considered proportionate to the dangers we are talking about. But if, after six months, the problem had not been resolved, there had been no conversion in the Republic, the place of worship had not separated from the people in connection with the jihadist sphere, there was always preaching or funding that gave rise to fears, then it would be quite possible to permanently close the place of worship in question, by dissolving the association, which is a very strong measure. For we agree: it is not the walls that are jihadist, but the people who preach there and the moral association that surrounds them. Thus, the proposal for closure is only a first step, if I may say so, before any dissolution of the association or grouping in fact takes place. So it is not because, after six months, a place of worship can reopen, that we accept as an established fact that it could continue to be professed to it anything, on the very ground of the Republic. In such a case, the administrative weapon is, of course, the dissolution of the association by the Minister of the Interior, under the cover of the judge. I recall that in France, the decision to dissolve an association is taken in the Council of Ministers: the Minister of the Interior must present solid arguments in order to convince the President of the Republic to accept the decree of dissolution. Moreover, the Directorate of Public Liberties and Legal Affairs (DLPAJ) of the Ministry of the Interior would probably not accept the signing of a decree just to please the minister who would have requested it. Thus, the proposals for the dissolution of the collective against Islamophobia in France (CCIF), the collective Sheikh Yassine, the identity generation movement, or BarakaCity, were all presented in the Council of Ministers. Freedom of worship can therefore be hindered by measures controlled by the judge, for a provisional period of six months now fixed in the name of the principle of proportionality. You're right, the duration could have been five or seven months, but it couldn't be one or two years. The second step is dissolution. Secondly, because our fellow citizens have to wonder why we do not decide more quickly to close a place of worship in case of a problem, I want to come back to an important point. First, until now, a place of worship could only be closed for terrorism-related reasons: eight mosques have been closed since 2017, including the one in Pantin, following the attack on Samuel Paty. However, it is well known that places of worship are usually closed for urban planning or covid -19 reasons, since they are establishments receiving from the public (ERP). But it is hypocritical, because we agree that it is a matter of fighting not urban planning but ideas. It is for this reason that provisions have been made in the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic and to combat separatism – as I said in response to Mr Ciotti – and not necessarily linked to a terrorist attack. When I made the decision to ask the prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis to close the mosque in Pantin – some of whose leaders were undoubtedly in direct connection with the terrorist attack that killed Samuel Paty, an attack that moved us all – the association appealed to the administrative court in Montreuil – and that is his right. Of all the grievances raised, the Tribunal raised two that had nothing to do with the spirit of the SILT Act. He counted the number of mosques in Seine-Saint-Denis, and noted that the state had not been particularly aggressive with regard to the Muslim cult, since of the 130 mosques in Seine-Saint-Denis held in the judgment of the court, only that of Pantin was concerned with the closure measure. This means, Mr. Habib, that if we had decided to close fifteen, twenty or thirty mosques at once in response to the Samuel Paty attack, the administrative court and the Council of State would undoubtedly have given us a wrong name. The court also looked at the bus lines. In recital 13, it stated that, while the applicant federation maintained that the contested order would no longer allow the faithful to go to a place of worship, given the inadequacy of the latter and the health context – the court had nevertheless found that 129 of the 130 mosques in the department had remained open – it was clear from the scriptures in defence of the prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis that the 1200 to 1300 faithful of the grand mosque in Pantin could continue to be accommodated in the other mosques or places of worship in the neighbouring municipalities of Drancy, Aubervilliers and Bobigny, which enjoy access to public transport. In the face of the memory of the association, which was still being banished because some of its leaders were linked to a terrorist attack – so it is not a cargo menu! – the prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis therefore had to justify his decision and contradict the assertions of the association. Regardless of the link with terrorism, which is essential in the provisions you have previously adopted, the administrative judge has therefore looked at whether the freedom of worship of the 1200 faithful of the Pantin Mosque is guaranteed by the possibility of going elsewhere to pray to their God. This suggests that, had there not been such close mosques to accommodate the 1200 faithful of the Pantin Mosque, the prefect's decree would have been broken, even if the SILT law had allowed the interior minister to shut down this place of worship. In our country, freedom of worship has been particularly protected, since the emergence of the republican and revolutionary spirit. It is therefore not a question of changing the Constitution in order to obtain closures of one or two years. But I assure you – you should like my introduction, MP! – that, if a mosque could not be closed longer for reasons related to the protection of freedom of worship, then we would dissolve the association – which I believe is much more useful than closing the mosque for a few weeks. If the amendment that you have defended cannot obtain a favourable opinion, it is not by naivety, but because its adoption would not serve the law and the measure that it proposes is less powerful than that provided for by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u127	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u128	The minister has made the situation clear: freedom of worship is guaranteed by the Constitution, and I think it is appropriate to exercise the utmost caution when it comes to it. While it is true that hate speech is being held in some places of worship, condemning an entire community not to have access to a place of worship under this pretext is particularly serious and likely to provoke even more resentment. The minister has just explained the criteria that have been taken into consideration by the Council of State: it seems to me quite normal not to condemn a whole community of believers to no longer being able to follow its worship. The methods of closure are special, since it is decided by the administrative authority: to set a maximum period of closure at six months therefore seems to me a good thing, even if then to move on to other measures, more severe, if a real problem is found in a given place of worship. To be able to exercise one's religion is a freedom guaranteed by the Constitution and one of the fundamental rights of our country: we must therefore provide guarantees, not to those who preach hatred, but to those communities that have the right to go and pray in their places of worship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u129	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u130	I listened carefully to the minister, and I do not hide from you that I was convinced by his arguments. It is obvious that freedom of worship is fundamental: to be myself a believer who regularly goes to the synagogue, I can understand that Muslims, in their overwhelming majority, are neither jihadists nor Islamists, and will simply pray to their God. But whatever religion, God, it's love, it's not killing others! It is the same for Christians, Jews, and Muslims until a recent change. The aim is not to extend the closure to seven or eight months instead of six – that will not change anything – but to ensure that when a mosque reopens, Islamist statements will no longer be made. As you assured me that, if you did not, you would dissolve the association, I am convinced, and I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u131	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Di Filippo, are you also convinced?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u132	I have heard the explanations given, but for the rest of the debate, I would like to ask for clarification: how many mosques have been closed in the last eighteen months, and how many measures have been taken within six months of each closure? This is a very important point. In the meantime, I, too, will trust the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u133	God is love!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u134	On the other hand, Amendment No 341 has been retained, and I shall therefore put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u135	[[Smile]] Only Mr. Ciotti is not in love!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u136	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are 350 amendments left: at this rate, it will be difficult to finish in time. Let us all try to make efforts – for once, I would like to point out, it is not Mr Bernalicis who is at the root of our waste of time! – and let us avoid increasing the number of speeches: this will allow the amendments to be considered in the best possible conditions and as soon as possible, while leaving its place in the debate. Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u137	This amendment due to Laurence Vichnievsky concerns, once again, the administrative closures of places of worship. It is intended that the closure order be enforced ex officio. Indeed, article L. 227-1 of the Code of Internal Security justifies such measures by the need to prevent the commission of terrorist acts. In these circumstances, there is no reason to inform the officials of the place of worship in advance, to submit the planned closure to an adversarial debate, or to suspend its execution for 48 hours, or even more in the event of a dispute. Unfortunately, it is easy to imagine that these deadlines leave all the time necessary for the commission of terrorist acts. The question that arises is, is it not better to close a place of worship unduly for a few days than to sacrifice innocent lives?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u138	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u140	Unfavorable opinion. This 48-hour period was introduced in the text following a priority issue of constitutionality. The decision of the Constitutional Council prompted us to create this guarantee. Forty-eight hours, in my view, this remains a very good compromise between freedom of worship, protected by the Constitution, and public order: it is balanced. Your fear of new attacks must be tempered by the existence of other mechanisms, including judicial ones, such as home visits or searches, which will enable the police, the judge and the prosecutor to prevent other crimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u142	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u143	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u144	The word is in defense!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u145	I do not want to keep the debate going too long, but the adoption of this amendment would keep the balance that you want and that is perfectly understandable. The closure could in any case be challenged at a later stage before an administrative judge! Therefore, the proportionality that you hold so much – and that we also defend – would end up. Removing this delay would save lives; On the other hand, what is forty-eight hours of closing a place of worship in the existence of a believer?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u146	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u147	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u148	This amendment deals with cases of recidivism: a religious institution which was allegedly closed for six months and which, in the following three years, would again fall under the same procedure would this time be closed for twelve months and its operator fined, so that the effect would be more dissuasive.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u150	Unfavorable opinion: we have already dealt with the issue quite well. Administrative closure is part of a set of instruments available to the Minister of the Interior. As he explained very well and at length, this temporary closure is followed by a discussion, around the prefect, aimed at putting an end to the problems found in this place of worship, and then another decision. Again, what is emerging from the evaluation of the SILT Act is that it works and fits well into the legal environment – the minister recalled – with a view to better controlling places of worship, especially those where Salafist statements are made. No cases of recidivism have ever been reported!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u152	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u153	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u154	It also seeks to close the related places to the place of worship concerned: it is likely that the person concerned will continue to preach hatred there. Of course, the representative of the State can always initiate proceedings with a view to closing the premises: in the commission of laws, I was thus objected to that my proposal would unduly constrain the action of the administrative authority. However, the aim of this amendment is to tighten the net, to avoid any forgetfulness, any human error in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u156	Unfavorable opinion. Indeed, Mr Diard, we discussed this amendment a great deal in committee, and I maintain my position: you question the very way in which the administration works today, that is, the balance of powers. As with the floor sentences, you absolutely want to bind the administration or the judge, to force them to make a decision. This is absolutely not the way things are! On the contrary, in this case, we give the Prefect the opportunity to take a measure, that is, to close a place of worship. It is on the ground; He's got the file. If it considers it appropriate to close the related premises as well, it will decide so. It would be of no use to bind his hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u158	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u159	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u160	No, Mr rapporteur, it would be useful not for nothing, but precisely to avoid the State representative being wrong and resulting in an attack! We are all bankrupt; The mistake is human. Linking to the fate of the place of worship concerned that of its related rooms, where hatred is also preached, is a way of doing everything to avoid a terrorist act.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u161	I have before me five amendments, Nos 236, 156, 267, 273 and 138, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 156, 267 and 273 are identical. I call Mr Claude de Ganay to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u162	I agree with my colleague Eric Diard that any closure of a place of worship must systematically lead to the closure of the premises that depend on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u163	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u164	Let us not be naive: how can we assume that, when hatred is preached, another spirit could reign in the ramifications of the religious association concerned? That was the meaning of Eric Diard's amendment. We wish to continue this debate, because the related places must not allow the persons involved to continue their activity in a more or less clandestine manner, nor to engage in other activities that could give rise to the same kind of hate proselytism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u165	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 267.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u166	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, we will certainly close places of worship where jihadists "cause violence, hatred or discrimination, provoke acts of terrorism or apologies for such acts", to quote article L. 227-1 of the Code of Internal Security; But these places of worship have annexes. The whole ecosystem, if I may say so, must be the subject of an administrative closure: festive halls, learning or socialisation places, etc. These are normally extraordinary places, forums of sharing and social exchange, but radicalization acts in the manner of gangrene: we will not close a place of worship and leave open everything around it, as if nothing were. Adopting these amendments would be both logical and dissuasive; Perhaps some would think twice before radicalizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u167	I call Mr Yves Hemedinger to support Amendment No. 273.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u168	Who can imagine that the faithful of a place of worship and the regulars of its addictions are not the same people? So we have to tie the two together.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u169	It wouldn't eat bread: it's almost editorial!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u170	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u171	This amendment, like the previous amendment, is a precise amendment aimed at imposing the systematic closure of collateral sites when a place of worship is recognized as a fertile ground for Islamism. In addition, it replaces proven facts with mere suspicion as a legal ground for the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u172	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u173	I must admit that I am a little surprised at the content of these amendments: this is a rather jacobine view of the functioning of the state. It is the actors who are on the spot, the prefect, responsible for applying the law, who have the discernment necessary to act: they must be allowed to do so. It is not up to us, legislators, to determine whether to close a place of worship or its dependencies: let us leave our hand to the prefect, who, I repeat, has the file and knows exactly which premises to close; He has the discernment necessary to apply the law correctly. For all these reasons, again, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u175	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put these amendments to the vote for a joint debate. In order to avoid discussions and even misunderstandings, I ask everyone to raise their hands. I saw you react earlier, Mr Benassaya, and I know you are honest: I therefore take this opportunity to remind the House as a whole of the need for everyone to express their vote clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u177	I have before me three amendments, Nos 167, 251 and 398, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 251 and 398 are identical. Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u178	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the provisions of Article 2 to places where any structure is administered by persons who manage a closed place of worship for the purpose of preventing terrorist acts. It is unlikely that the perpetrators of incitement to violence, which resulted in the administrative closure of the place of worship where they professed their doctrine, will be able to take refuge in other structures for which they would be responsible in order to continue their hate speech. I therefore propose, this time, to give the possibility – I stress this point – of these closures to the representative of the State. The adoption of this amendment, Mr rapporteur, would strengthen the mechanism provided for without changing its nature: this provision would in no way bind the administrative authority, but would, on the contrary, broaden its scope, thereby helping to combat incitement to violence and terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u179	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u180	It is intended to provide the State with the opportunity to close all sites administered by a person who is also administering a site that is subject to closure. Radicalization is protiform, it does not operate only in places of worship: a radicalized person will be at all times and in all places. According to Marc Sageman, a former CIA member and advisor to the US government, 70 per cent of the members of the Al-Qaeda organization have been brought there by friendly ties, which are developing particularly within the associative or sporting structures. If it is no longer possible for a person to speak dangerously for our society in a place of worship, it is very likely that he or she will seek to do so in another place. It should therefore be clarified that the closure measure may apply to any place administered by a person administering a place which has been the subject of such a measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u181	I call Mr Jolivet to support Amendment No. 398.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u182	I would like to support my two colleagues Eric Diard and Aude Bono-Vandorme – who represent us, in his capacity as Vice-President of the French delegation, in the Committee on Combating Terrorism of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE-PA). The comments that my colleagues have just made correspond to international recommendations. It can be seen that the proliferation of terrorism goes, of course, through places of worship with malfunctions, but above all by satellites, especially sports and cultural associations run by the same people.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u184	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Unfavorable. The whole system of closing places of worship is based on the notion, not of the person, but of the place where the worship takes place. This has been discussed at length earlier: freedom of worship is protected by the Constitution and there is a need for great caution in this regard. The current system seems to be proportionate and I fear that by automatically extending the closure to all places administered by the same person, it will be taken the risk of imbalance. In practice, the prefect has the option of opening a file for all sites administered by the person. With regard to constitutional freedom, there is a need for measures and discernment. If the person administers more than one place of worship, the prefect may temporarily close one or all of these structures. One last argument, which seems important to me: very often, the person or association that administers the place of worship and the person who utters dangerous words are distinct. Sometimes – the minister can attest – it is even at the request of the owner of the premises that these devices are deployed in order to put out the person guilty of such remarks. For all these reasons, both constitutional and practical, I express an unfavorable opinion and I propose that you withdraw these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u186	The same as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u187	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u188	I did not understand what you said, rapporteur. It is not places of worship that preach hatred; It's not the premises, it's the person who does it. However, if the person preaches hatred, security requires that he or she no longer be able to do so in all the premises he or she administers. The prefect may ignore the fact that he or she administers several of them and may not make the necessary arrangements. Here again, we propose a safety net in the fight against terrorism. Two colleagues from the majority have tabled the same amendment as me, proof that he does not express an opposition, but a desire for security.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u189	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u190	What you just said brings water to my mill. A distinction must be made between the person who administers the premises and the person who makes the statements in question, who, in 95% of cases, is not the same. Since freedom of worship is guaranteed in the Constitution, I repeat, it is necessary to apply this measure with discernment and to allow the prefect the possibility of closing a place or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u191	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u192	It is intended to request the expulsion of a minister of worship practising in the closed place of worship, including, in the case of a mosque, an imam of foreign nationality. If the administrative authority closes the mosque, I propose that the imam be automatically expelled, unless the authority makes a contrary statement. If a place of worship poses a terrorist threat and is closed, logically, the minister of worship who serves in that place, if he is a foreign national and has participated in the preaching that threatens national security, must be expelled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u194	Unfavorable opinion. It is the same debate: the administrative authority must be given the opportunity to make the decision or not. It must have control over the possible implementation of these two measures – the closure of a place of worship and the administrative decision to expel; It is she who has the necessary discernment. In any event, the Minister may confirm this, if the person disturbs public order, if he holds statements in a mosque that violate public order, the place of worship will of course be temporarily closed and the person evicted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u196	The fact that the person is the minister of worship does not matter; The important thing is that it is directly linked to separatist discourses that advocate the hatred of our country, incite violence, demean women or "unbelievers". There is no reason to limit oneself to ministers of worship. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that "minister of worship" and imam is not the same; This is one of the semantic problems that we have encountered in the context of the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. Anyone who makes such a statement, commits or shows intent to commit acts contrary to the rules of the Republic, or who is or could be linked to a terrorist attack, would deserve the censorship that you refer to in the amendment. At the administrative level, this person may have three statutes: French or binational, foreign in a regular situation and foreign in an irregular situation. In the latter case, things are very simple: with few exceptions, where we could not do so because their country of origin would be a theatre of war – for example, Libya or Syria – we are expelling people who already have no right to be in the national territory from the national territory. Given the difficulty of expulsion, we give priority to people in a radicalization file and to those responsible for serious public disorder. The law already allows it, and that's what I've been doing since I was Minister of the Interior. A "Minister of Worship" – I put quotes – who would make remarks falling within the scope of Article 2 would certainly deserve to be included in the FSPRT (Report Processing File for the Prevention of Terrorist Radicalization) and expulsion. But as the rapporteur says, that is already what is being done. Second case: the person is a foreigner in a regular situation. That's possible! People who speak contrary to the laws of the Republic, who are or may be in direct connection with an attack, may be present in the national territory on a regular basis. The case is divided into two: the regular who enjoys asylum protection, which limits the possibilities for action somewhat; and the regular who does not enjoy such protection, but who holds a residence permit. For foreigners in a regular situation without asylum protection, your amendment would interrupt the normal procedure that I asked the prefect to follow: they must first transform the regular into irregular by withdrawing his residence permit, then proceed as in the previous case, i.e. expel him, for example because he is registered with the FSPRT. Thus, since September, 20,000 titles have been refused or degraded. If the alien is granted asylum, i.e. protection decided by OFPRA (French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons), your amendment could not work. In fact, we should first go through a procedure for withdrawing this protection. Thus, 179 procedures have been completed – including after the decision of the administrative courts, which are often very protective of asylum under the European conventions – allowing us to withdraw asylum protection from persons who, despite the risk they face themselves in their country, pose a danger to the national territory. But your amendment would not automatically lead to their expulsion, since we are obliged to go through the process that I have just described, a little more complex than the provision that you propose. Finally, the person can be French or binational, in which case, as you know, we cannot expel him from the national territory: this is one of the problems we encounter. I understand the spirit behind your amendment, but it would weaken the work we are already doing, a difficult task because it is very careful, on a case-by-case basis. The persons who fall under Article 2 and your amendment are certainly included in the FSPRT, and if they are not, they must be included in it. If they are in an irregular situation, they must be expelled, and that is what we are doing, as the rapporteur has pointed out. If they are in a regular situation, they must be deprived of their residence permit. If they are granted asylum protection, a procedure must be initiated that goes beyond your amendment. We therefore agree on the spirit, but in the area of law, your amendment weakens our action. I hope, however, that my remarks have reassured you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u197	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u198	By this amendment, our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky wishes that, if the violation of a measure to close a place of worship or places dependent on it, decided on the grounds of incitement to violence or the commission of terrorist acts, is committed by a foreigner, Article 131-30 of the Criminal Code applies, since the removal of that foreigner is clearly of interest to public security by preventing the recurrence of the offence in any other place in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u201	Unfavorable opinion, due to the disproportion between the penalty incurred and the secondary penalty of prohibition of French territory (ITF). Under current law, this possibility exists when the penalty is five years. However, when it comes to the closure of places of worship, it is six months. So there's a disproportion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u203	I find it difficult to understand the amendment, to tell you everything. Your concern is to ban French territory from any foreigner who is guilty of violating a measure to close a place of worship. Someone is committing this crime, it has been shown that he has committed it, he has exhausted all the remedies, but he has continued to make live a place of worship whose closure has been pronounced: this is the situation you are considering, if I understand correctly. So there are three problems. The first is the same as for Mr Ciotti's proposal for ministers of worship, but which could concern anyone...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u204	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u205	Mr President, your amendment allows for an ITF for any foreigner who is guilty of violating a measure to close a place of worship, so there are also three possible cases. Let us say that a foreigner who, as we are discussing with Mr. Ciotti, violates the measure of closure of the place of worship, by continuing to provide services, by going there...: either he is an irregular foreigner and then he is expelled, or he is regular, and then he is degraded and expelled. Then, violating a measure to close a place of worship because of the SILT law is an offence, and your amendment proposes, if I understand correctly, a supplementary penalty that the judge should take. But it is not for the administrative authority to substitute itself for the judicial authority. Finally, when a person has been expelled after misdemeanours committed in France, it is already planned that his return will be prohibited. The Minister of the Interior must ask the prefectural authorities: it is not enough to expel a foreigner, he must also be prohibited from returning to the national territory, either by an ITF if the foreigner is not European, or by a ban on movement on French territory (ICTF) if he is European, or by an administrative ban on the territory (IAT) when he is in foreign territory and is notified that he cannot return. In any case, a measure prohibiting return is taken, either judicial or administrative, and these measures are often limited. I do not see what your amendment is about. I have responded to Mr Ciotti's comments and to the amendments calling for a supplementary penalty. In the law against separatism, we have provided that the judge may prohibit persons issuing virginity certificates from the national territory, for example: it is a complementary, not automatic, penalty. And if it is a ban on return, administrative or judicial, normally the prefect must take it; When this is not the case, it is a mistake and we do not need the law to remind the prefects that they should not do anything stupid.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u206	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u207	Following these explanations, we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u208	Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 360.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u209	I would like to refer again to recidivism. In the continuity of the extension of the closures, it seems necessary to set limits to the possible recurrence of violations. I consider that, in the interests of proportionality between freedom of worship and the need to preserve public order, after two administrative closures were pronounced on the grounds of calls for violence, hatred or discrimination in a place of worship, the State representative could then pronounce not only the dissolution of the association but also the permanent closure of the establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u211	We had this debate long enough earlier. For the same reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u212	Mr Pauget's amendment No 28 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u213	Amendment No 437 by Mr Nicolas Forissier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u214	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u215	This section 3 is the resumption – I was going to say skilful but I am not sure – of the provisions of the bill introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence. These recaptures are found in different parts of the text, particularly here, where it is proposed that the duration of individual administrative and supervisory measures may vary depending on the conviction. The MICAS are not reserved for those convicted of terrorism who leave prison, but you make a distinction for those convicted. MICAS may be diverse; the simplest device is the call to the post to find out if the person still resides nearby. The Council of State points out, and I repeat this opinion, which is in line with my argument, that a period of 24 months could pose a constitutional problem, which would obviously lead to further censorship and I am not sure that the Government is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u216	Oh, no, he's not ready for this!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u217	The Council of State adds that a proportionate period would a priori be twelve months. Indeed, there have already been challenges to these measures, and so there is case law – whatever the minister says – which sometimes misleads and thinks that no one ever disputes anything in this country, even though it is the opposite – still happy. It is therefore important to oppose these provisions, which strengthen MICAS with a view to re-eating safety measures. Our opposition to this is the same, regardless of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u218	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 274 and 346. I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 274.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u219	The purpose of this amendment is to extend MICAS to persons threatening public order with particular gravity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u220	Amendment No 346 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u221	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice. The very purpose of SILT measures is the fight against terrorism and if we want to maintain the constitutional balance and thus ensure the validation of this mechanism, we need an aim to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u222	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 153, 226 and 343. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u223	It must be noted that some individuals or mobilities escape very precise surveillance by our intelligence services. The purpose of this amendment is that the conditions that allow MICAS are no longer cumulative but alternative: instead of having to meet several conditions at the same time, either one or the other must be sufficient. This would expand the potential beam of individuals that can be monitored.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u224	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 226.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u225	Article L. 228-1 of the Internal Security Code establishes cumulative criteria for the implementation of MICAS, which are: that there are "serious grounds for believing" that the conduct of the person "constitutes a threat of particular gravity to public security and order", and that the person either "enters into habitual contact with persons or organizations inciting, facilitating or participating in terrorist acts" or, alternative to the previous criterion, that he "supports, disseminates, when accompanied by a manifestation of adherence to the ideology expressed, or adheres to the arguments inciting or apologies for the commission of terrorist acts". These cumulative criteria are too restrictive. The amendment therefore proposes to make them alternative. It is obvious, in any case I hope: if both are serious, it must not be "and" but "or".
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u226	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u227	The cumulative criteria required to activate a MICAS are not conducive to the extension of the device. This is proof of the figures I have already quoted in the rostrum. Under the State of Emergency Act 1955, from November 2015 to November 2017, we had identified 754 house arrest cases, while since November 1, 2017, we have only recorded 425 MICAS cases. This means that our level of protection, I have often deplored and denounced, has been degraded, while the terrorist threat is still so strong. Somewhere, we have reduced custody, especially because of the constraints placed on the administrative authority to activate these protective measures. We therefore propose that the criteria be no longer cumulative but alternative, in order to facilitate the implementation of protection measures in the event of a threat. With the cumulative criteria, we are already sliding towards the association of terrorist, criminal or criminal criminals: cumulativeity almost automatically leads to judicialization. However, the administrative procedure is there to protect and remove doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u228	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u229	Unfavorable opinion. The cumulative nature of the criteria justifying MICAS was required by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 16 February 2018. To adopt these amendments would, therefore, certainly be tantamount to being subject to censorship by the Constitutional Council. While we can discuss the need to amend the Constitution, the constitutional block or the composition of the Constitutional Council – these issues are perfectly legitimate – as I indicated in my opening remarks, our objective is that the bill not only was passed by the Assembly and the Senate at the end of July, but that it was also approved by the Constitutional Council. We want to ensure the sustainability of counter-terrorism instruments, including MICAS, in order to improve the effectiveness of intelligence services. I invite you to review the decision of the Constitutional Council. The cumulative nature of the criteria that must be met for MICAS to be pronounced is a clear requirement. These amendments expose us to certain censorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u231	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u232	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u233	I note that the rapporteur anticipates the opinion of the constitutional judge on many matters! The cumulative nature of the criteria should not be the only consideration; the seriousness of the facts must also be taken into account. Recently, a law has taken a bold step in the field of algorithmic surveillance, which is particularly intrusive for our fellow citizens. In the face of the threat, however, they accept this restriction of their freedom. The risk of censorship deserves to be run; At this stage, this is a question of interpretation. But your unfavorable views may be due to a lack of resources, as the current workforce does not allow too many people to be monitored. If that is the case, then let us discuss it: it is certainly possible to solve the problem. In any case, you cannot sweep our proposal with a simple back of your hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u234	I have before me two amendments, Nos 158 and 275, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u235	It is intended to add a paragraph after the first paragraph of Article 3 in order to include a common sense measure in the text. How can we think that we can keep in our territory foreign people who benefit from the hospitality of France, but who lack the most elementary of their duties and who go so far as to apologies for terrorism and hatred? With this amendment, I hope that illegal immigrants – for them, expulsion is in any case compulsory – but also asylum seekers, refugees and foreigners with residence permits who apologies for terrorism are systematically and immediately subject to expulsion in a preventive manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u236	Amendment No 275 by Mrs Typhanie Degois is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u237	In fact, they are already satisfied: I ask for their withdrawal; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable. According to the Code on the Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the Right of Asylum, the CESEDA, since a foreigner poses a threat to our citizens, must be expelled. The Minister can testify to this because this policy is the one that is obviously being applied by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u239	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u240	I ask for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u241	I give it to you, Mr Di Filippo, it is right, but, for the sake of the smoothness of our debates, I call on you to respect the rules that we have set ourselves and not to systematically ask for the floor after the opinions of the committee and the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u242	[[Smile]] You don't have to complain about the fluidity of my speech, Mr. President. I am always concise when I speak and I do not abuse my speeches! I simply wanted to stress the pedagogical virtue of these two amendments. As a matter of principle, it is obviously possible to expel foreigners for disturbing public order, but things are quite different in practice: whereas the number of foreigners expelled for this type of offence was 5000 in the 2000s, it is now between 130 and 140. There's really a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u243	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u244	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u245	I can't let you say anything like that, Mr. Di Filippo! As I mentioned earlier to Mr Ciotti, since 29 September 2020, 20,000 refusals or degradations of residence permits have been pronounced. With regard to expulsions, the crisis of the covid -19 is, as you know, an important difficulty, since it has led to the closure of the airspace and imposed the obligation to submit a negative PCR test to take the plane. We bring to justice all those who refuse to be found because we consider that they are thus opposed to the execution of a measure of return to the border – which is a crime, you know as I do. The policy pursued by the Government, at least that which I have been pursuing since I joined the Ministry of the Interior, is to establish priority cases in administrative detention centres (CRAs), administrative detention facilities (LRAs) and among persons under house arrest, pending deportation. Despite the epidemic of covid-19, we expel almost every day people who have seriously disturbed public order. As you pointed out yourself, MP: the obligation to expel is already enshrined in the law. Anyone who has committed murder or rape, who has engaged in drug trafficking, must be expelled from the national territory, and I hope that the same goes for perpetrators of domestic violence. In any case, the number of 130 expulsions you are giving is not correct since 20,000 residence permits have been refused or withdrawn since 29 September, and the expulsion procedures launched. But we are in a very special health situation. You yourself cannot go to Morocco or the United States. Admit that it is difficult to compare what is not comparable! You cannot say that before we are expelled and that today we are no longer expelling: that is not true. We're expelling even more than before!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u246	I hear what you're saying...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u247	Finally, I would like to point out that when I was appointed Minister of the Interior eight months ago, 231 illegal aliens were registered with the FSPRT. I have made this figure public and have committed myself to the expulsion of these individuals from national territory. This commitment was fulfilled: they left our country, with the exception of those who were incarcerated because they deserved it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u248	So your predecessors were ineffective!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u249	Despite the difficulties of obtaining consular passes, the dialogue with the countries of immigration, the judicialization of the files of those who oppose the PCR tests and the saturation of the CRAs, we are therefore carrying out expulsions. We agreed earlier, in agreement with the Chair of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that this is a daily fight, but it is a fight we are fighting. And contrary to what has been done so far, we are taking measures to ban return to French territory. Previously, foreigners concerned by an expulsion order were the subject of a TE file opposing entry into France within the wanted persons file, the RPF. The card allowed the border police to refuse entry into the national territory. But if they entered the country by a way other than an airport, for example, by using immigration routes – by Italy, which is well known by Mr Ciotti, by Spain or not by Belgium – they were registered TE but they could not be expelled. An administrative ban on the territory must therefore be taken by the Minister of the Interior. From now on, we are systematically taking this measure for foreigners registered with the FSPRT or guilty of serious public disorder justifying their expulsion, so that they cannot return to the national territory. The presence in the national territory is now considered an offence if a person is the subject of an ATI. Previous governments, whatever they may be – I don't throw stones at anyone! –, did not take this measure when foreigners were expelled from the national territory. We were evicting them, they were coming back! We were evicting them, they were coming back! The game of cat and mouse is now over. Let us beware that the Minister of the Interior will have less work in the coming years!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u250	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u251	So you think your predecessors were very ineffective, minister... The aim of this amendment is to reverse a provision which seriously undermines the effectiveness of MICAS. These allow us to force an individual who represents a terrorist threat to our nation not to move outside a specific geographical area, which cannot be less than that of a city. But if this city is Paris, a city of 2 million inhabitants, it can move freely within the perimeter of the capital! You will agree, the coercion is therefore quite weak and the threat is significant – whether the city is a big or a small city. In the State of Emergency Act 1955, the house arrest order made it possible to compel a person to stay at home for a period of 12 hours a day. In one of the many texts that we examined in the House to extend the state of emergency, Guillaume Larrivé and I also increased the duration of the house arrest from nine to twelve hours. We would like to go further, but this issue raises a constitutional debate. In any event, the assignment of an individual to a city is inadequate for the purpose of effective protection of our fellow citizens; It is even inoperative, even naive. That is why I propose, by this amendment, to review the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u254	Unfavorable notice, for the reason you already know.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u255	It's always unfavorable!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u256	If we adopt this amendment, the text would certainly be censored by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u257	Then let's change the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u258	I invite you to review the opinion of the Council of State and the two decisions of the Constitutional Council of 2018. The measure you propose would inevitably lead to the censorship of MICAS. As of 1 August, the intelligence services would then be deprived of this instrument. You say that MICAS is useless and not operational,
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u259	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u260	...but this is not the opinion of the intelligence services at all. On the contrary, the representatives of the intelligence and corrections services that we have heard have all shown his interest: the instrument that they prefer for its effectiveness among the four created in 2017 in the context of the fight against terrorism is MICAS. According to them, this measure allows the best follow-up of the individuals concerned and the best prevention of acts of terrorism. We cannot therefore take the risk of depriving ourselves of this instrument. It is legitimate, I repeat, to question the need to revise the Constitution in the National Assembly and in the Senate, to make a bed of constitutional justice, to impose on the Constitutional Council the vision of Parliament, but that is not the subject today. A revision of the Constitution would take at least 18 months, when our objective is to ensure the sustainability of the instruments to combat terrorism as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u262	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u263	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u264	I have never said that the MICAS are useless and inoperative, Mr rapporteur, since I regret, on the contrary, that they are not extended. In fact, we wrote it in our joint report. MICAS are obviously useful. I propose that it be made easier. You know my position on the matter before us. The French who are watching us this evening certainly measure the weakness of the tools that we have in relation to the seriousness of the threat. Your answer is always the same: we face censorship from the Constitutional Council. Is this argument admissible in the face of the Islamist terrorist threat? On the contrary, let us take the subject with arms-the-body! In many areas, the evolution of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which places security at a lower level than other values, requires that we change the constitutional framework within which we act to better protect ourselves. We all agree, the threat has evolved. Let's not stay in a state of permanent impotence! You always oppose us with the same argument, while we offer pragmatic, useful and more protective solutions. It should be recalled that the measure we are proposing was provided for in the State of Emergency Act 1955 and had not been censored by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u265	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u266	This one has a good back, indeed, to justify your inaction and impotence!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u267	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u268	Indeed, the Constitutional Council has a good back! I regret that, but we are moving towards an umpteenth security law, after, alas, a future attack. On this subject, there is no problem, everyone agrees, it is not partisan! Everyone can understand that limiting the movement of a dangerous person to a city like Paris makes no sense. Let us stop talking about the Constitutional Council at all times and let it work! That is my question, which I also ask our minister: if there were not the Constitutional Council, would you be in favour of the amendment? I think we need to stop squatting behind him. It is we who make the law and at the limit, if we have to change the Constitution – I say it since 2013 or 2014 – it is up to us to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u269	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u270	There are a number of interesting debates to be conducted here, but they may eventually look like a Gordian node that we would not be able to untie. I do not wish it; This could lead us to believe that we are just repeating ourselves, over and over again, on the same subjects. I would therefore like to support the position of the rapporteur. On the other hand, there is also a need to measure the effectiveness – or ineffectiveness – of existing measures. I will start with the temporal before I take an interest in the spiritual – the Constitution. Mr Ciotti, you cannot say everything and its opposite! In your opinion, since the last six terrorist attacks were committed by foreigners, there is a problem with foreigners and this makes it absolutely necessary to legislate on their case. So far – let's stay very modest, anything can happen at any time – no prison leaver has committed an attack and the last nine attacks have been committed by people who were not registered with the FSPRT and were not the subject of MICAS. You must therefore admit that the provisions voted by Parliament are clearly working. There are dozens – to listen to you, hundreds – of people who have been out of prison since they carried out terrorist attacks a few years ago in our country, not to mention those who have been imprisoned for complicity or even, since you were counting them in the custody of the seals, ordinary prisoners who have radicalized in prison. I see it statistically, just as you refer to statistics on foreigners: until now – again, let's stay very modest, this can happen and I don't want to hire anyone – none of them has committed an attack.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u271	What about La Chapelle-sur-Erdre?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u272	This attack was not recognized as a terrorist attack! The anti-terrorist prosecutor's office did not deal with the case and in this case, to know a little bit about it, I think he was right. I say it without any discomfort since I myself, Mr. Ciotti, referred to the fact that the person had a radicalized profile. I said it and I don't have to hide from it, but it's not a terrorist attack recognized as such. What is certain is that the measures resulting from the SILT Act, and in particular the MICAS, are working. It is so true that it is thanks to the MICAS that one of those radicalised and dangerous prison leavers – Mr Moreau, whose case you know because the press has mentioned it – could again be caught up by the patrol and deprived of liberty, in order to prevent him from taking action. The measures adopted by the SILT Act and implemented by the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) and the Ministry of the Interior made this possible. We cannot pass the law of number only when it arranges for us, for foreigners, without taking it into account when we realize that it does not arrange for us, for example, for those who leave prison or for those who are under a MICAS. You're accusing us of being naive, but these measures are working, Mr. Ciotti. Will they work all the time, Mr. Habib? I don't know, but we're still touching on freedoms that are still fundamental! I do not have the reputation of being particularly naive, but it is still about people who have finished their prison sentence and that we will continue to watch while they are at large – regardless of any arrangement since their sentence is over – for the good of the nation. I think it's absolutely necessary. I regret certain decisions taken by the Constitutional Council and we have the right to regret them, but the fact remains that these measures, if necessary, are still difficult to take; They must be with a shaking hand. Telling someone who's finished their sentence that we're going to continue to control it, it's not nothing! It's necessary, but it's not that simple. The measures in question are therefore not naive and demonstrate their effectiveness. In fact, they were the first to be taken in the context of the state of emergency. The other possibility, which you do not mention, is this: if I am your demonstration to the end, you would like to lock people up once their prison sentence is over. That's what you're saying! If you want to achieve zero risk – which is never guaranteed, however, since the last nine attacks were committed by people who were not registered with the FSPRT, which clearly shows that there is a small problem somewhere in your reasoning – you should lock people up after their stay in prison. If this is the consequence of what you say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u273	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u274	... it is certain that we are outside a reasonable institutional framework! In this regard, I do not refer you to the debates that clearly go through several political parties, or at least one of them. Here it is, the other solution, if we go to the end of your idea: in anticipation, as in Minority Report, people must be deprived of their liberty because they are considered potentially dangerous, regardless of the prison sentence they have already served.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u275	So in this case, we don't make MICAS!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u276	Mr President, today the MICAS are working! I know that sounds amazing to you, but I can assure you: they allow our intelligence services to track people in a framework that has been validated – I will come there in a few moments – by the institutions of our country, and to be able to stop those people when we find that they are back on a bad path. Mr Habib, according to what I have seen of the profiles of those who, coming out of prison, are the subject of a MICAS, they do not – or not all, of what I see – have the secret, hidden and organized idea of committing an attack without talking to anyone! They must travel, use their phone, meet other people, use money and may be in contact with foreign theatres of operations; When they come to point, they talk to a law enforcement officer. Sometimes they have a personal disorder. All these "little true facts," as Stendhal would say, lead us to believe that some of them have gone on the wrong side. We catch them when we see financial flows, when we see that they open a telephone line or come into contact with abroad, when they consult certain types of sites or when they no longer point at the police station because they left forty-eight hours – and not twenty-four, the authorized limit – outside their department. They are small alarm bells that awaken the attention of the intelligence services. It may not be the panacea but it is useful, and I note with you that no prison leaver has yet – I remain very modest – committed an attack. This may happen, it is an eventuality, and perhaps we will have to legislate again, Mr. But the truth is, today, the device is working. And if we believe Mr Ciotti's demonstration, many of them are being followed in this context, which is proof of its effectiveness. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it must first be made clear that we are discussing an ordinary bill. There are two possibilities: either we consider that we can act within the current framework, or we think we can do nothing at all. In the latter case, it may not be necessary for us to spend the evening together, and it is not even necessary to vote on the bill because what we need to do is to amend the Constitution. But we are not discussing a constitutional bill! The President of the Republic did not convene a referendum and the Parliament did not meet for that purpose. We are discussing an ordinary bill, within the framework given to us by the Assembly. You say you want to change the Constitution, it's a good war, but I remind you that we're not examining a constitutional bill, and it's such a good war. Once that has been done, it seems to me that we can still move forward on the ordinary provisions which, in my view, already greatly improve the measures that can be taken by the Ministry of the Interior and, more generally, by the Government of the Republic. Then it is felt that for you, the Constitution is an object that has never been judged by the people. But it was the people themselves who wanted us to do it! She did not leave the offices of an inter-ministerial meeting that would have taken place in Matignon between forty-eight technocrats evoking subjects of which the people would have no idea – it's something that can happen, I don't say otherwise, and it sometimes irritates me! The truth is that the sovereign people have several times – and first and foremost under General de Gaulle – approved the Constitution and accepted the idea that we have a Constitutional Council, a Council of State, two chambers. The people have admitted bounds to the power of the legislator, which is – excuse me for saying it, I have been, and I have been very happy and honoured – only the representative of popular and national sovereignty. Therefore, let us avoid saying that the Constitution is only a framework that prevents us from acting, and, as Mr Ciotti did, that people are watching television, deploring our naivety. In their great wisdom, the French have repeatedly wished to establish a constitutional framework. This has always been the case since at least 1945 and even, apart from the State of Vichy, since the Third Republic, since we all know that it was also characterized by a framework of legislative power. I therefore believe that it is not enough to say: "Let us change the Constitution! This would probably require a much more dramatic debate, the scope of which would go beyond the few reflections that we can develop around an amendment, since the organization of powers would have to be deeply affected. You are asking what the minister, Mr Habib, thinks: I am not saying that such a debate is mediocre; I say he's very serious! There are actually three solutions. If we consider that what we are doing can be useful – that's what we did yesterday and I think we have demonstrated it – then we need to work on the ordinary bill that we are introducing today. I understand that you think this work is useful, since you will vote for the text, Mr Ciotti, as you announced before the start of the debate on the amendments. We know this and I have welcomed the work of the oppositions, in particular the Republican Group; I particularly welcomed Mr Larrivé's comments, both in the media and in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I also hope that the Socialists and related groups will vote in favour of the text, in accordance with the spirit which Mr Larrivé had once breathed. Valls and Cazeneuve. Other opposition groups will also be able to do so, if they so wish. We can therefore improve, as part of an ordinary bill, a mechanism that is complex but that works. Otherwise, we can launch an institutional debate, but it cannot be decided at 23 hours in such a framework – we can agree on that. Don't let us believe, Mr Ciotti, that because we say that the Constitutional Council sets limits to our action, we are naive. That's not the case! We are working within the framework of an ordinary bill; Only when a constitutional change is on the agenda of the National Assembly will it be time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u277	It's up to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u278	But unfortunately, Mr Ciotti, I feel that I do not understand exactly what the institutional reform you are calling for is, if not in the immediate confinement of everyone. I do not say, I repeat, that this debate is mediocre, I say that this is not the debate we should have tonight. I believe that the rapporteur's concern is to legislate properly. He is like all of us: he has voters who watch television and who, in his constituency, his original Burgundy, must wonder why we do not take action very quickly. What the responsible elected representative is concerned about is still to present a text which does not create false hopes and which can be validated by the Constitutional Council. Otherwise, we'll be leaving for a year without MICAS, while they're working! I really don't think there's any naivety on our part. This may seem surprising to you, but these measures are working, probably not 100%, and even if I cannot commit to the future. If you wish – I know that some of you have – I encourage you to come and check it out by going to the ISB officers to see what they're doing. Finally, we can still improve the text, within a constitutional framework, which we must accept, because we must draft the law by avoiding its censoring in three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u279	Brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u280	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u281	Mr Minister, this is an important debate and I do not want you to limit its scope. I have said, and I naturally confirm, that we will vote for the text. It has the advantage of existing, but I repeat, you could have maintained the state of emergency. You lifted it for ideological reasons, because it was a campaign engagement of candidate Macron; But the seriousness of the terrorist risk could have legitimized, from a legal point of view, that we should remain within the framework of the 1955 law, because it gave us stronger weapons. Instead, you find yourself forced to adapt a device to a lower level. With regard to constitutional reform, we come to the end of this quinquennium as we have crossed the course of the last year. Since 2017, you could have made such a reform, but what reform are we talking about? You may remember that, minister! In 2016, together with Nicolas Sarkozy, we defended an electoral programme which aimed, among other things, to introduce a referendum amendment to the Constitution allowing security detention, in line with what President Sarkozy had introduced for sexual criminals. You were then his campaign manager and I was his spokesperson. This is a concrete example! You answer every time the Constitution opposes greater protection. But the person responsible, rather than the Constitution itself, is the interpretation that is being made at the moment by the current members of the Constitutional Council, because they have dangerously changed their jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u282	Stop calling the Constitution into question!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u283	I therefore propose that a major consensus reform be launched; She could bring all the Republicans together...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u284	It's not Republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u285	... by putting the precautionary principle at the forefront of our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u286	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u287	I don't think there's any point in questioning people who aren't here to defend themselves. But should I remind you, since you invoke popular sovereignty and the people watching television, Mr Ciotti, that the voters did not want the reform that you are proposing, and this twice? I also find it quite normal that the President of the Republic, elected by direct universal suffrage, wanted to respect what he proposed during his presidential campaign and which was validated by the French people, by a democracy that voted. It seems normal, when we commit ourselves to something as strong as the end of the state of emergency, that this will materialize. Otherwise, what would you have said? So we must not caricature our remarks. You were right to say that this text is important; Let us limit ourselves to the debate on the ordinary bill, because we already have enough work to do to help our intelligence services.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u288	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u289	I'm not going back to everything that's been said, but know that we're going to put two things back on the carpet. First, we do not understand that someone is forced to reside in the perimeter of a city like Paris and not in the perimeter of a district, while another may be resident in a municipality of 300 or 2000 inhabitants. This is not from a constitutional point of view: other administrative boundaries can be taken into account. Secondly, it is very difficult to understand and hear in successive texts that we must put the family and professional life of the terrorists who threaten us and our children before the security measures are put in place. This concept is so blurred that it can allow ill-intentioned individuals to carry out destructive businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u291	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Unfavorable opinion. We are always returning to the same debate: you are proposing amendments – provisions coming directly from the state of emergency – which you know are unconstitutional. We had this debate in 2017 and last week in committee. In fact, you want to lead the political debate. If we adopt such an amendment, we face censorship from the Constitutional Council. You know that well, despite your denials. If this amendment is adopted, the operative part will be declared unconstitutional and, on 1 August, there will be nothing left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u292	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u293	Clearly, that is not what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u294	I have before me three amendments, Nos 322, 361 and 362, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 322 and 361 are identical. Amendment No 322 by Mrs Michèle Tabarot is being defended. Mr Philippe Benassaya has the floor to support Amendment No. 361.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u295	Despite the constitutional threats, I maintain my amendment which still deals with the same subject, which must be hammered to improve the text: it is a matter of restricting the scope imposed in the framework of an MICAS, especially for the communes of Paris, Lyon and Marseille, composed of boroughs.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u296	Is your amendment No. 362 defended, Mr Benassaya?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u297	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u298	I have before me two amendments, Nos 200 and 201, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u299	In 2017, during the debates on the SILT law, I had already pointed out that it was illogical to retain communes that may have very different sizes as their perimeters: Paris and Romilly-la-Puthenaye, it's not exactly the same thing. For Paris, Lyon and Marseille, I propose that we retain the borough as a perimeter. I had already proposed a similar amendment to which, Mr.Minister, you had recognized a certain logic – I have reread the debates and you promised to work on it. Why did this work not succeed so much it seems logical not to leave a potentially dangerous person potentially free throughout the territory of Paris, Lyon or Marseille?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u300	Amendment No 201 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u301	The same arguments are opposed to your logic. We had this debate in 2017 and since then, two decisions of the Constitutional Council have shed light on the balance to be respected between the preservation of public order and respect for individual freedoms, in particular that of going and coming and the right to a normal family and professional life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u302	A Parisian district!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u303	For some this seems inconceivable, but these are the rules of our rule of law. I repeat that the adoption of these amendments would endanger the very existence of MICAS, since this has been judged by the Constitutional Council in a very clear way. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u305	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u306	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u307	You disappoint me, minister, because you didn't have that appreciation at all the last time. As for you, Mr rapporteur, I do not understand your argument. The 17th arrondissement has 170,000 inhabitants. Do not tell me that the freedom of these poor people, confined to this area, who could not move and have a family life would be hindered. That is absolutely not important. I don't know where you get that information about the Constitutional Council. For my part, I don't have it and I'm sorry. Do not tell me that these people could not have a family life in a district of 170,000 inhabitants – even 220,000 inhabitants in the case of the 20th arrondissement! It may be more complicated in the 1st arrondissement, which has only 17,000 inhabitants, but in this case, how do we do it in a municipality of 300 inhabitants? There is also a difference in the treatment of people depending on their place of residence, which should be unconstitutional: they will not have the same freedoms, depending on their home. I can return your argument that I don't understand. I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer. I need you to give me a concrete explanation of why the perimeter is not that of the borough.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u308	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u309	Madam Member, I think you do not want to hear the rapporteur's arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u310	Yes, I heard it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u311	The Constitutional Council refers to respect for private and family life. Whatever their qualities, the arrondissements of Paris or Marseille are not communes, territories where people have a private and family life with their children's school and their possible place of work. You can raise your eyes to the sky...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u312	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u313	[[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...this is the answer given to you by the rapporteur on three occasions. After a while, even if I disappoint you, I am no longer taking the floor. Let me be disappointed that you are disappointed that I am disappointed that you do not hear the rapporteur's arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u314	You've changed your mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u315	We are not in the Constitutional Council. There are very good people, on all political sides, especially some that you know particularly well. It is necessary to draw conclusions from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. To please you, Member, we would adopt measures that would be censored when we need them for our intelligence services. Under these conditions, I am ready to disappoint you.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u316	Amendment No 269 by Mr Yves Hemedinger is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u317	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u318	Persons in an irregular situation in the Territory do not enjoy a fixed place of residence. They must therefore not be affected by Article L. 228-2 of the Code of Internal Security. The person in an irregular situation is not intended to pursue a family and professional life on French territory. The aim of this consistency amendment is to underline this fact. It would also be necessary to stress that persons in an irregular situation in our territory who are guilty of terrorist acts or intended to do so should be returned directly to the border. You cannot live on a soil that welcomes you and aspires to harm it. This evidence must be recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u320	Unfavorable opinion. There is no reason why an irregular alien should not be eligible for MICAS because he or she would not have a domicile.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u321	Amendments Nos 347 by Mr Eric Ciotti and 369 by Mrs Marine Le Pen are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u322	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 147, 151, 168, 228, 270 and 376. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u323	I find it difficult to understand the tolerance with which the legislator considers persons found guilty or liable to be guilty of terrorist acts on our soil. Why would criminals continue to enjoy normal family and professional life? At a time when families have been separated by interminable health devices, at a time when the French are suffering from health constraints that prevent them from working calmly or have deprived them of work, this editorial is not lacking cynicism. Those guilty of terrorism harm the security of the nation whose values they betray and whose law and order they destroy. If only for example, they should under no circumstances have the right to lead a normal life: they have deprived themselves of this privilege by committing their package or aspired to commit it. My amendment seeks to clarify this prohibition on any person guilty of such conduct to enjoy a normal life.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u324	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u325	Let us try to go a little further in this debate on the family and professional life of potential terrorists or terrorists, which you absolutely want to preserve. This is the case of large-scale ad hoc events, offering them the opportunity to carry out very harmful actions. The wording "family and professional life" is too vague and insufficiently precise to act in favour of what is the real priority of the moment, namely not the freedom of people who have put themselves in very serious situations, but the safety of our compatriots. It's a difference of appreciation. At least in writing, we'd have to find an in-between.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u326	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u327	The article provides for taking into account the family and professional life of the person who is the subject of MICAS, and it is true that the Constitutional Council has recalled this need. However, consistent case law also makes the prevention of breaches of public order an objective of constitutional value. A balance must therefore be sought. The aim here is to prohibit a person who is the subject of an MICAS from travelling to an area where the Olympic Games or a rugby world cup are taking place. The ban, temporary and exceptional, would affect very few people. Consequently, violations of family life would be limited and proportionate in order to preserve public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u328	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u329	To complement Eric Diard's remarks, I would point out that the ban would be imposed for only 30 days, not ad vitam aeternam, in the context of a major event that entails a high risk. As you said, Mr rapporteur, the Constitutional Council would invalidate a measure that would indefinitely restrict the family life of even dangerous individuals. By the way, I indicate that when they are detained, they can find their loved ones – a spouse, most often – in family units for six, twelve, forty-eight or seventy-two hours, once a quarter. You are going to tell me that, in the cases that occupy us, they have served their sentence and are outside.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u330	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u331	In the case of an important event, it seems to me logical to apply the precautionary principle for a limited period of time. The tragedy would be that someone could commit an attack because we would not have made the decisions that I think we should make today.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u332	Amendments Nos 270 by Mr Yves Hemedinger and 376 by Mrs Marine Le Pen are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u333	Unfavorable opinion. We have just had this debate: respect for the right to a normal family and professional life is a requirement of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u334	What about the preservation of public order?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u335	The Constitutional Council asks us to strike a balance between this requirement and the preservation of public order. In any event, under no circumstances can the reference to the right to family and professional life be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u336	It's the world upside down!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u337	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-06-01-O1289.u338	Next sitting, tomorrow Wednesday, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence. The meeting is adjourned.
