ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian and the members of the La République en marche group on the reform of insurance brokering and brokering in banking and payment services (No. 2581, 3784).
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u2	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u3	The text I am presenting is the result of work started with the Government as early as 2018. In fact, similar provisions had been introduced in the bill which became the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law, but unfortunately the Constitutional Council had censored them as legislative riders. The aim of this bill is to reform the organization of the professional world of insurance brokers and intermediaries in banking and payment services, on the one hand, to better support these professionals, since many of them are sometimes alone in the face of increasingly complex regulations and major technological changes, and, on the other hand, to provide the consumer with a quality service which gives him full confidence in the competence of his intermediary, which means that he must be able to verify that he has fulfilled his obligations. Also, in order to ensure a better verification of the professional requirements required and better support, this text proposes the creation of professional associations approved by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – the CPRA. Since certain provisions, such as those relating to accreditation, have been declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution, the Government has tabled amendments to reintroduce them, which I welcome and thank you, Madam Secretary of State for the social economy, who is responsible and responsible. In view of the objective to be pursued by these associations, I have excluded from the scope of this text certain actors such as credit institutions, financing companies, general insurance agents and professionals in the free provision of services or in free establishment. In fact, recognised professional associations will have clearly defined tasks: they will be able to offer their members a mediation service – which is already compulsory for existing associations, but is still too few – and they will check the conditions for exercising their activity and the fulfilment of the required professional requirements. Finally, they will offer a service to accompany and observe professional activity and practices through the collection of statistical data. The amendments tabled reveal that some of you are concerned about the control power of these associations over the business practices of their members, including insurance brokers. I have had the opportunity to reassure you in committee: every actor concerned, the professional world as well as the CPRA, is well aware of its role: the CPRA will remain the sole authority responsible for supervising the activities and contracts of brokers, and will continue to verify the quality of business practices, for example, compliance with the duty of advice; associations will play a complementary role to that of existing bodies in monitoring compliance with the requirements relating to the exercise of the profession, namely good repute and continuing training; ORIAS – the Organization for the Single Register of Insurance, Banking and Finance Intermediaries – will continue to manage the registration register of professionals and will now monitor the conditions of entry into the profession – diploma, financial guarantee, civil and professional liability. In return, this text offers professionals strong guarantees: association projects will have to be validated by the APCR, which will check their representativeness and their competence, their honorability and the impartiality of their governance. In addition, legal representatives, directors, staff and employees of associations will be bound by professional secrecy, which may not, however, be opposed to the CPRA or the ORIAS. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to thank all the colleagues who have followed the development of this bill. Their work has enabled the Finance Committee to substantially enrich it at various levels, in particular by strengthening the guarantee offered to professionals vis-à-vis associations: on the one hand, they will have to justify their refusal to join and the person concerned will have a right of appeal; On the other hand, the process of sanctioning members is simplified, along the lines of what is practiced for financial investment advisors, with the clarification that the approval issued by the CPRA will be the guarantee of a fair and equitable procedure. In addition, the date of entry into force of the law is adapted to all actors since it is set for 1 April 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u4	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u5	The bill we are considering is an expected reform, as you have just pointed out, Madam rapporteur, for at least a year and a half by both brokers and consumers. We had the opportunity to discuss this at the time of the review of the PACTE bill: as the chair of the special commission, I was very supportive of your efforts to better accompany the brokering activity. But since the Constitutional Council had decided that the article concerned was a legislative cavalier, I am pleased that the La République en marche group has chosen to put it back on the agenda. Indeed, this text provides simple and pragmatic answers to the questions posed by brokerage companies, in order to perpetuate the confidence of the French in them, thus their viability. It thus fulfils the need to protect the consumer by promoting a high level of requirements for the whole sector. Over the past ten years, the legislator has strengthened consumer protection rules in the financial sphere. But these rules are not always respected: on the one hand, there is a lack of sense of responsibility on the part of some, and on the other hand, there is a lack of control on the part of others. The Supervisory and Resolution Authority is only able to carry out seventy checks per year, while there are almost 40,000 insurance brokers and agents and 13,000 brokers and agents in banking and payment operations. To the detriment of all professionals in good faith, such a context has allowed the development of dishonest practices. I'll mention two of them. In the last few years, there has been an increase in the number of telephone calls for insurance – I know that this scourge of daily life has mobilized the National Assembly last year: we have not yet succeeded in putting an end to the gradation of problematic practices, which range from pure schemes of scams to highly abusive stalling. Secondly, construction insurance guarantees placed by actors outside our borders, for example in Gibraltar, have been developed: in the absence of adequate provisioning, these companies have gone bankrupt in a cascade since 2017, leaving insured persons without any protection or recourse. We have learned from this at European level by establishing better control over cross-border activities, but we must also learn from it in France by better controlling the distribution of guarantees that are sometimes known to be questionable. In order for the French and French to be able to give brokering all the confidence that this profession deserves, it seems essential that it organizes and professionalizes itself with the creation of approved professional associations, whose relationship with the ACPR will be enshrined in the law. To this end, the Government will propose by amendment to re-establish the original text of the bill, some of which have been rejected in the Finance Committee pursuant to article 40. Approved associations will be responsible for monitoring the activity and accompanying their members. As such, they will have to offer a mediation service, verify the conditions of access and exercise of the activity, as well as respect for professional requirements, in a logic of advice and support. It should be recalled, in order to dispel any ambiguity, that these associations will not constitute competent authorities within the meaning of Article 12 of the European Directive on the distribution of insurance of 20 January 2016 and that the proposed law does not provide for any delegation of control by the CPRA. The logic followed is, therefore, that of the trust and accountability of the actors. In order to foster the diversity of associations, necessary for each professional to feel truly at ease in this new framework, several associations will be created. To date, eight professional associations have already indicated their readiness to file their accreditation files. This shows, if necessary, that the sector is already in order. Foreign actors operating in France under the freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment will also be able to join these recognised professional associations, but European law does not make it possible to compel them to do so. This will therefore be a simple option, even if it is likely that the vast majority of them will want to use it, as their membership will be a sign of seriousness and confidence for French customers in their broker. Approved associations will be governed by rules that will guarantee their independence and impartiality: first, the CPRA will verify their representativeness, competence, the good repute of their legal representatives and administrators, as well as their ability to ensure the exercise and permanence of their missions through appropriate material and human resources. Subsequently, all the rules of operation of the associations will be specified in writing and approved by the CPRA at the time of their approval, which may be withdrawn by the Authority from those who no longer comply with them. As for professionals, they will have important guarantees. Thus, an application for membership of an association must be answered within a maximum of two months from the date of receipt of a complete file. Any refusal must be justified and may be appealed to the courts. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is, subject of course to the adoption of amendments re-establishing the original text, fully supporting this bill necessary for the sustainability of our brokering network, in particular that of local brokers, whose presence is so important to the insured. If you allow me a bit of an easy formula, we're doing a brokerage reform, not for the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u6	You make sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that it can be promulgated as soon as possible so that its operational implementation will take place, as planned, in the spring of 2022, in order to strengthen the presence of brokers with the French, with confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u8	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u9	Madam Secretary of State, you say that this is a reform expected, but by whom?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u10	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u11	I'm not sure she's expected by anyone. Of course, we all agree on the objective: to ensure better control of these sensitive trades in order to protect consumers. But it could be done more simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u13	I am a little surprised at this bill. Similar provisions had been rejected by the Constitutional Council because, under the CAPTE Act, they were considered to be legislative riders. They come back in the form of a bill largely inspired by the Government. This, as a matter of principle, deprives us of an impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State, despite the interest that the Government and the administration seem to have in this matter. In fact, the bill seems to be well drafted by the Government, since you have taken up amendments that were declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution. In the absence of the lighting of the Council of State...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u15	... which could have been the subject of debate, it is very difficult to assess the effects of such a reform on the brokering sector and, even if you seem to be sweeping the subject, the adequacy of the scheme with European law. Four points raise the question. First, compatibility with European law: the 2016 Directive provides that supervisory authorities must be either public authorities or bodies recognised by national law, which cannot be associations whose members directly or indirectly include insurance undertakings and intermediaries. Your scheme therefore raises a problem, since associations are not authorised by the directive. In France, control must therefore be based exclusively on the CPRA. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] In the debate in the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur told us that, in her view, there was no inconsistency with European law since professional associations would not carry out any checks. Then what will they be for? They either control and commit an infringement of European law, or they do not control and, in that case, they will form a layer of unnecessary complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u16	That's brilliant!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u17	[[Smile]] Don't get excited, my dear colleague, I'm just trying to figure it out! There was another solution: assigning more responsibilities to ORIAS. It was sufficient to extend the capacity of this single register to record, each year, the elements which the Directive makes mandatory, such as mediation or training. The ORIAS would record and verify, with the CPRA performing its supervisory role. Secondly, I regret the complexity of the system of regulation of brokering, for an efficiency which seems to me to be quite uncertain. Professional associations will not carry out any particular checks: they will achieve nothing more than what ORIAS could have done if you had extended its powers. Indeed, there are many brokerage companies, and perhaps there will be eight, nine or ten associations that will be created as intermediaries and will probably wage war. It's strange to want to complicate everything! Unfortunately, the Government is doing the opposite of what it says: why make it simple when you can make it complicated? Madam Secretary of State, this reform is exactly the opposite of your colleague Mrs de Montchalin's message. I know that we love to stack structures: this is, once again, an example of French administration. Thirdly, several professionals, such as insurance agents, are excluded from the procedure. I do not particularly want to include them, but from the moment the device exists, we must treat everyone in the same way. Some of the activities of the general staff do not depend on the insurance companies in question: I do not see why it would not be subject to the same controls. Finally, to my knowledge, the problems of fraud are often caused by European actors, rarely by French actors. With the so-called freedom to provide services, there will be no obligation to join supervisory and control associations. The actors will act as they please, so that the arrangements will not solve the problems raised by the Secretary of State and the rapporteur. Amendments tabled by different groups take up all these points: yes, we have to check; Yes, consumers must be protected, but I do not see the interest of such a mechanism which brings little. There may be some things I don't know, you can explain them to us. In France, the laws are numerous, so those that are useless are dangerous, because they carry in themselves the ferments of a complexity that often turns against the aim sought. I therefore ask you to adopt our amendments entrusting ORIAS with more powers in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u19	In the general debate, Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u20	First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with what President Woerth has excellently said; My remarks may include some repetitions in my remarks, but things are probably worth repeating. Initiated after the summer of 2018 in the PACTE law, then censored by the Constitutional Council in May 2019, the project of self-regulation of the brokerage sector resurfaces at the beginning of the year, in a rather unexpected way. First, the fast-growing brokerage and insurance sector in recent years is not easy to control. It should also be noted that brokers, such as insurance brokers and brokers in banking and payment services, are not currently subject to the permanent control of the CPRA. We would like to make a few reservations, which have also been raised by many colleagues in committee. The proposed law is intended as a mechanism to support the development of insurance brokering activities, providing that the actors concerned must adhere to a professional association approved by the CPRA. Is this not an indirect financial reserve created for professional organisations? This legitimate question was eluded during our debates in committee. In fact, in studying the scheme, one can only wonder what justifies such a bill? We are astonished by the timetable for the examination of the text, as we stand on the eve of a third confinement. That is not reasonable. Other more urgent issues are a priority. I am thinking in particular of the support mechanisms for our fellow citizens who are suffering during this period of health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u22	We're thinking about insurance participation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u23	I'm going to go, Mr. Bernalicis. Many shaded areas have not yet been dissipated. It is very regrettable that an impact assessment assessing the financial and economic impact of the proposed legislation is not available. We are surprised at the lack of a guarantee in its operative part and regret the amendments tabled in open session aimed at re-establishing the censored paragraphs under article 40 of the Constitution. We also question whether the arrangements comply with the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016. Moreover, it should be noted that this bill will create indirect costs and increase the obligation to join a professional association, whose financial burden is estimated to be more than 20 million euros per year: it is a bad signal sent to a profession that is trying to adapt to the severe financial instability of recent months. In this sense, we welcome the amendment adopted in committee which shifted the date of entry into force to 1 January 2022. The amendment adopted to provide insurance or reinsurance brokers or their agents with remedies in the event of refusal to join an approved professional association is in the right direction. It is important to secure all stakeholders. Instead of making it more complex, let us strengthen ORIAS, as has been proposed in the Finance Committee. This would ensure optimal control of broker registration devices. Finally, the distortion of competition is real, and we regret that General Insurance Officers are excluded from the scheme. Reform of the sector is not pointless, but, in view of the remaining issues, it still seems to us to be confusing. We would have much preferred to discuss the place that insurance takes in supporting the population in the health crisis we are going through. We have tabled an amendment in committee to ensure that 10% of the reserves are returned to support our fellow citizens. In the bill, there is nothing about it. On the other hand, creating this type of device is apparently more satisfactory. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will abstain. For my part, I will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u24	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u25	Even if there might be a palancée, I'm going to avoid wordplay on insurance by going straight to the bottom of the subject. Should the insurance brokering industry, brokers and intermediaries be better controlled or not? Definitely. Will creating an association to which membership will be compulsory improve control? The answer is rather no. Moreover, the professional associations in the sector immediately explained that these associations would simply be great as they would be there to accompany the sector. Understand: to regulate it a little between the people concerned and not to control it. They have assured, said and repeated it in every tone, so that no one will fear this bill in the sector. Finally, we come to explain that the CPRA may have its say: so much the better! I, together with our colleague Jacques Maire, have produced a modest report on the means used to combat economic and financial crime, and I can only welcome the granting of additional powers to the CPRA. But we could question the means at its disposal to control this very flourishing sector. The number of insurance brokerage companies is growing exponentially. However, this sector does not really create value, since its actors are intermediaries. Sometimes these companies do not have the means to control them. Will there be more resources to do so with this text? No, and it is the professional associations themselves that say it themselves, which should put the chip in our ears. Finally, the text is rather a way of laundering this sector, which can invoke the existence of associations, representatives, specifications and ethics so that they do not come to get lice in their heads. However, we know that this is one of the areas where reports of fraudulent practices to oversight bodies – CPRA, TRACFIN or other organizations – are the least numerous. I don't know whether to make deductions, but I still see a bundle of clues. We are told that compulsory membership in professional associations would solve problems. I have to say that even if these professional associations were given the power to control the sector, I would not have been more supportive. See what is happening in the banking and insurance sector: the various European directives, drawn up in particular following the 2008 financial crisis, have led to a strengthening of internal control with the development of a department within companies to monitor compliance with the rules. Separated from the other operational branches of the company, this service carries out internal alerts. However, in the event of a problem in a company, bank or insurance, the case goes back to top management, as they say in the middle, at the top of the company. There is therefore a conflict internal to the company, with people who work for it but who eventually find themselves in charge of denouncing it if it does not comply with the rules. As a result, fraud continues to be detected in businesses and, each time, insurers and banks apologize for saying that they will do better next time. We require these companies to allocate a sufficient number of employees and a share of their turnover to internal control, but it would be preferable to tax banks, insurance and insurance brokers to the extent of their expenditure on compliance with prudential rules, in order to finance external control by strengthening the resources of the CPRA and those of the AMF – Autorité des marchés financiers. It is on this condition that the public authorities will be able to ensure that some margoulins do not take advantage of the bounty constituted by the legal desert and the rather evasive framework, still to make a small pun. If you want to take part in the general laundering of the sector, it will be without us: the group of France will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u26	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u27	To supervise and monitor the activities of insurance brokers, everyone can agree on this commendable goal. This is less so when it comes to defining a method to achieve it. The subject was also raised during the two-year review of the PACTE bill. We also remember that this draft reform was rebutted by the Constitutional Council, since it had been added by way of an amendment. It comes back in the form of a bill but as much as saying that it resembles a disguised bill that goes so far as to forget the pledge. No guarantee, therefore, either an impact study, which would have been very useful in enlightening the House on a very technical subject. Thus, according to the existing logic for financial investment advisors, this bill provides for the creation of professional associations to which membership will be compulsory and controlled by the CPRA. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes this approach, which should help insurance brokers decipher the texts, train themselves to increase their skills and respect consumer rights. It is thus a question of making the profession more responsible. This is necessary because insurance brokerage activities, both numerous and diverse, have developed in recent years, with many brokers cumulating their status with other regulated activities: these structures are still difficult to control. Brokers are not subject to CPRA's ongoing control. Moreover, in its last report, the Commission noted certain shortcomings in the field of regulatory compliance, in particular with regard to the marketing of supplementary health or mediation contracts. On the basis of this observation, we see the need for regulation of the sector. Some gaps in the original text have been filled in the Finance Committee. We therefore welcome several contributions such as the obligation for representative professional associations to justify their decision in case of refusal of registration of a broker, who will also have the opportunity to contest this decision. This is a measure of common sense and transparency. However, if we share the objective pursued, we question the modalities for implementing the reform, which must be specified by decrees in the Council of State. We do not understand very well the functioning of the system and we will vote almost blindly. In addition, we question the articulation of the text with European law. Indeed, a 2016 directive provides that brokers may establish scoping associations. However, monitoring activities must be reserved for the public authority. In committee, the rapporteur told us that the associations would not have a monitoring mission and that the relationship between the member broker and the association would only be declarative. Their power will therefore remain very limited. We could have followed the path proposed by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, namely to entrust ORIAS with an additional task of in-depth verification at the time of registration of professionals, as it has the merit of limiting the complexity of the process. Finally, what about the rapporteur's amendment on telephoning practices? This practice, denounced by consumer protection associations, particularly affects vulnerable people. It has even made progress since confinement, and we are in favour of the rapporteur's proposal. But if we support a stricter framework for these practices, we question the ways in which it has been introduced into this bill. In order to see our amendments which are regularly inadmissibility under Article 45 of the Constitution, we wonder whether the examination of their relationship to the original text is not carried out with varying geometry. [[Charles de Courson applauds]] In conclusion, in the light of the various comments we have just made, the Libertés et Territoires Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u28	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u29	The purpose of this bill is to regulate and structure brokerage activities in insurance, banking and payment services. These intermediation activities have developed considerably in recent years, without the need for legislation to adapt or for material resources to be provided to control them. The ACPR, a body attached to the Banque de France and responsible for the supervision of banks and insurance, noted that it had little information on these professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u31	To answer this question, you are introducing a bill, the rapporteur, that is more like a disguised bill than a real parliamentary initiative. Your text is in fact nothing more than a provision rebutted by the Constitutional Council, which the majority had tried to incorporate into the PACTE bill, after many negotiations in Bercy. Let us hear, this is not a question of semantics: with this legislative arrangement, you will again spare yourself the preparation of an impact study that would probably have been useful in assessing the proposed scheme. We therefore have to legislate blindly again: no impact assessment, therefore, and a proposal for a law that looks like an empty shell within which, once again, the regulatory provisions, fixed by decree, that is, without any intervention by Parliament, have a fair share. And we will be examining, just after this bill, a bill to ratify ordinances: what a sad illustration of what has become of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u33	The substance of the text is limited to a few things. You quickly draw up two patterns of organization of brokerage activities, one for insurance brokerage and the other for banking brokerage. This new organisation will be structured around new institutions: approved professional associations, to which professionals will have to join, on a contribution basis. It is difficult to know, on the basis of the text alone, what the missions of these associations will be; But, if we stick to the rapporteur's comments when examining the text in committee, it does not seem that these approved associations will have the opportunity to monitor professionals. They may simply grant or withdraw membership to a professional, depending on certain aspects that will only be declarative. The control of professionals will therefore remain the sole prerogative of the CPRA, which does not solve the initial problem of the means of this control, a problem pointed out by the CPRA itself and which normally justified this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u35	You even add a new charge to the CPRA, which will now have to approve the associations. As a result, the usefulness of having to join an association on a declarative basis is not well understood, whereas a declaration register, ORIAS, already exists. The mechanism you want to put in place is still very vague: at this stage, we still wonder what these professional associations will do if they do not take over part of the missions of the CPRA or if they do only what the ORIAS already does. Why not entrust the management of declarations to ORIAS, whose resources would be strengthened?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u37	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Why not also strengthen CPRA's capacity to carry out on-the-spot and piece checks that it cannot carry out today? You made a choice, but all these questions could have been partially resolved through an impact assessment. But since this is officially a bill, there was no bill. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] We remain unclear and do not understand what these accredited associations will be used for, apart from taking annual contributions from the participating professionals. Parliament is not allowed to legislate properly or to obtain specific answers to all these questions. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u38	Maybe they're associations of... evildoers!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u39	You've already talked about fraud, but earlier, it's stigmatizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u40	I thought we wanted to play word games!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u41	No! Or in good taste.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u42	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u43	The proposal for a law on the reform of insurance brokerage and brokering in banking and payment services, defended by our colleague Member of Parliament for the Loire Valérie Faure-Muntian, represents a real challenge in terms of structuring and simplifying a large and poorly regulated market. Since the beginning of the legislature, we, the deputies of the presidential majority, have continued to act for the simplification and transformation of companies. This was particularly the case with the PACTE law, promulgated in May 2019. This text on the reform of brokering is fully consistent with this law in its desire to simplify the brokerage of insurance. Our commitment and mobilization remain intact. As the regulation of insurance and banking brokering is increasingly complex, it is essential, in order to protect consumers in the best possible conditions, to structure this market while preserving local brokers. The majority of brokers did not join any association or trade union. With this bill, we deal with the problem at the root. Working in consultation with insurance players, the text, which takes up a flagship measure of the PACTE law, introduces self-regulation of insurance brokers by obliging them to join a professional association. The latter will act as an intermediary between their profession and CPRA. This provision will concern insurance and credit, which will strengthen the inter-occupationality between these two professions, and will promote structuring, simplification and regulation. This association will allow brokering professionals to better train in order to increase their skills and thereby respect consumer rights. And to answer you, President Woerth, ORIAS is a register of joint governance, which has neither the means nor the competence to control, for example, the quality of training.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u44	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u45	All you have to do is give them the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u46	It will therefore be the role of the association to verify that insurance brokers have strong training to carry on their business. In conjunction with CPRA, associations will be able to make disciplinary decisions in cases of non-compliance with regulations. The associations will also offer professional mediation to their members, who will therefore be able to be accompanied in better conditions. At this stage, 22,000 insurance brokers and banking and payment services carry out the insurance intermediation activity, without being subject to the permanent control of the CPRA. It should also be noted that 56% of individuals state that they cannot interpret the terms of their different contracts alone, demonstrating the importance of the relationship and financial pedagogy between brokers and French. This certainly responds to your question, Mr Woerth, and to yours, Mr Dufrègne: this reform is very much expected, especially from consumers. The current health and economic crisis also shows that many companies need to be accompanied in terms of risk coverage and that insurers will have to face up to the new challenges. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Together with the Members of the La République Group on the move, we support this bill, which, contrary to what you have said, Mr Woerth, serves well: it aims to create a better self-regulation of the sector, to promote local brokering and to better protect consumers. It is for all these reasons that we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u47	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u48	We are considering a majority bill on the reform of insurance brokerage and brokering in banking and payment services. With this text, you tell us you want to better regulate the brokerage market, which has developed strongly in recent years: for this, you intend above all to submit the licensed brokers to the CPRA. You are also presenting this text, Madam rapporteur, as a means of strengthening the control of the conditions for the marketing of insurance products. How can you not subscribe to it on paper and how can you not approve of your stated ambition to better protect consumers? It is a major objective, at the heart of our legislative mission and which could bring us closer. The big question, the only one that really is worth it – and this one you didn't ask, Madame Verdier-Jouclas – is whether your text really helps. On this point, however, the answer is far from clear, and you are far from convincing us, as evidenced by the meaning of the various speakers who spoke in the rostrum before me. We regret it, but there is no reliable and precise evidence, either in the bill or in your explanations in committee, that supports the idea of better consumer protection. We therefore retain real and legitimate doubts as to the usefulness of voting in favour of this text. We are wondering whether this text should be placed on the agenda of our Assembly at this time. Non-health issues should not, of course, be caught up, but what is the urgency of suddenly legislating on brokering, while the extremely worrying health, economic and social context requires an unwavering mobilization of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u50	What interest, in the present period, is there in voting hastily for a reform whose ins and outs are clearly under no clear control? Second question, also unanswered: why is the legislative vector of such a reform a bill? While we are very committed to parliamentary initiatives, we know the mechanisms used. We know very well that, in this case, this proposal comes from the Bercy administration. We are therefore surprised that such a reform has not been the subject of a bill, which would have required the advice of the Council of State. This opinion would have informed us much more than your explanatory statement, which is limited to a few vague principles and simple statements of intent. National representation is therefore called upon to vote on a particularly technical and complex reform, which seems to present no urgency, without any reliable information or evidence being provided on the impact and potential consequences of this reform. How, then, do you ignore the form errors on this text? It is quite surprising that our colleague rapporteur, whose reform was, I would remind you, supported by the administration, with the approval of the Government, and approved by the majority group, failed to guarantee the single article of the bill. This is, however, the b.a.-ba of the parliamentary procedure, especially for a text under the Finance Committee. This omission dropped no less than four paragraphs under article 40. This neglect is not fundamental, but it only reinforces our global scepticism: I think you can understand it. On the substance, many questions remain unanswered. First of all, the professional organisations directly concerned by the text have mobilised and expect more precise information on the timetable for the implementation of the reform. The crisis context in which we operate threatens the economic model of many intermediaries, knowing that almost 70% of them are self-employed. Secondly, the question of the proven risk of non-compliance with European law raised by the Chairman of the Finance Committee is not annoyed. Finally, this reform poses a risk of distortion of competition. The text contains an exclusion clause for general staff and intermediaries in the free provision of services. This situation will lead to a distortion of competition in the exercise of commercial practices between the various actors in the brokerage, which we regret. That is why we hope that President Woerth's rewrite amendment will be adopted in order to make this text more satisfactory. This amendment proposes a much simpler and more cost-effective way of regulating the brokerage sector. [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] As I said in the Finance Committee, we were waiting for clarification from the majority in order to remove the vagueness of certain aspects of the bill. We have not obtained them, and this text remains unconvincing, both in substance and in form. As a result, Members of the Republican Group will not vote in his favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u51	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u52	First of all, I would like to thank you, the rapporteur, for your work, which has already been engaged for several months with all the stakeholders in this sector on a complex subject. There is great interest in meeting, listening to and trying to find the best solutions to a problem that we had identified during the review of the PACTE bill by the special commission, which was admirably chaired at the time by the Secretary of State here. The banking and insurance intermediation markets have seen a very strong development over the last decade, due to the new habits of consumers, the low-rate environment which leads credit institutions to outsource certain tasks, but also to the development of new products, such as the reform of pension savings that we have carried out in the PACTE law. If access to these activities is controlled, those carried out by these intermediaries are subject to relatively flexible control. Intermediaries are theoretically subject to control by the CPRA, but this is not permanent due to the size of these structures. These markets are also poorly structured. The strong growth of intermediaries must lead us to better supervise and control these professions. However, it appears that as a result of the market break-up, direct monitoring by the CPRA is to be ruled out. Building on the existing mechanism for financial investment advisors, CIFs, which has made it possible to regulate this sector properly, your bill aims to create self-regulation of these markets by relying on mandatory membership of intermediaries in professional associations. The latter will have a complementary role to those of the CPRA and ORIAS. It is not a question of removing powers from these bodies, as some are concerned about it: on the contrary, they will make this control more effective. The reform proposed by the rapporteur seems to us useful for two reasons. First of all, it is an imperative of consumer protection in the important moments of their lives when insurance or banking services such as a real estate loan are chosen. Such decisions often involve our fellow citizens for a lifetime and we cannot let them escape any supervision. It is also, in my view, a step forward for these intermediaries, who will find reliable interlocutors in these associations to accompany and advise them, particularly in the regulatory field, because they are often small structures. At the moment, we referred to the complementarity of these associations with CPRA and ORIAS. Under no circumstances does the latter exercise an advisory and accompaniment role; it has neither the competence nor the resources to do so. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats supports this text. However, it proposes a few amendments, which will ensure that the procedure for withdrawing an intermediary's membership is contradictory, impartial and independent, within the framework of the disciplinary powers of these associations, which are not without some concern within the profession. We cannot delegate disciplinary powers to these professional associations without ensuring to the intermediaries to whom we give the obligation to adhere guarantees of the independence and impartiality of the procedure. It is simply a matter of justice. We have already made progress on the subject in committee with the possibility to appeal to the judicial court. However, it seems to us crucial to clarify that these disciplinary procedures must be impartial, written and carried out by independent commissions. We hope that we will be able to obtain kind opinions on our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u53	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u54	The proposal we are looking at is aimed at establishing a regulatory framework for insurance brokers and brokers in banking and payment services, by requiring them to join representative associations approved by the CPRA, at an estimated cost of around EUR 500 per year. You propose a form of regulation that allows legitimate brokers to sanction those of their colleagues whose practices are harmful. You therefore add a level of control to assist the two regulatory bodies, ORIAS and ACPR. Of course, the risks of non-indemnification of insured persons must be addressed, but allow me to raise some questions, both in terms of form and substance. Compliance with European rules and the preservation of competition without distortion are points on which I wish to remain vigilant. This text does not arrive at a good time and provides for a provision which questions, as it affects the tasks of the actors in the sector, the ACPR for the controls and the ORIAS for the certification of intermediaries. It is in addition to an existing regulation and its real impact raises questions. As I will have the opportunity to make clear in the discussion of the amendments, we fear the drifts that your reform can bring about. Worse, we fear that it will have the effect of disarming public authorities, while ORIAS and the CPRA should, as we propose by amendment, be endowed with the appropriate human, financial and legal means to carry out their tasks. We are concerned that the context surrounding this bill leaves little room for consultation, as Bercy seems to have taken a turn after being prepared with stakeholders in the sector. As a result of the majority fact, we want at least a report to Parliament two years after the reform has been deployed, to assess whether it has had the expected impact, without any effects on board. Our proposal is accompanied by the possibility for ORIAS and CPRA to carry out assessments and provide advice on the subject. We are counting on you to adopt it: it will cost nothing and, without dispelling our fears, it will improve Parliament's information, which is always useful for legislation. It is only through such a report that we can know whether this reform has had the desired effect, whether it has changed nothing or, worse, whether it has harmed consumers. We hope that you will know how to do your mea culpa and that you will finally give the regulators, ORIAS and the ACPR, the necessary means to carry out a demanding control. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We will not vote in favour of this text, which leaves us very cautious.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u55	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u56	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u57	This evening we are considering the proposal for a law on the reform of insurance brokering and brokering in banking and payment services. As the rapporteur said in her opening remarks, the aim of this text is to structure a market that has developed considerably, while strengthening consumer protection. In its single article, the proposed law provides for the establishment of professional associations with compulsory membership, approved by the CPRA. The first issue to be addressed by this bill is the structuring of a market with an increasing number of players and evolving within a sometimes complex regulatory framework. The rapporteur alerts us in her report on some of the deficiencies in regulatory compliance identified by the CPRA, particularly with regard to the marketing of supplementary health or mediation contracts. The desire to offer better support to brokers is commendable and meets a real need, especially for small structures and brokering professionals working individually. At the same time, consumer protection will be strengthened by more effective control. Approved professional associations may play a complementary role to those already held by the CPRA and ORIAS. However, these associations will have no control over the contracts concluded by their members or over their compliance with their duty to advise; they will verify that their members have complied with the conditions necessary for the exercise of their professional activity laid down by law. The examination of the text in the Finance Committee added a few safeguards to protect brokers and improve the system. I am thinking in particular of the obligation on approved professional associations to give reasons for their decisions refusing membership, a measure of common sense which we have defended by way of an amendment. Our amendment, also adopted by the Committee on Finance, to ensure that insurance brokers or their agents can have recourse in the event of refusal of membership by a recognised professional association, will protect brokers. We believe that these two measures are able to secure the situation of brokers and to make more transparent the accession procedures and possible refusals of membership by professional associations. Two points, however, require our attention. The first concerns the costs for professionals in the sector which will result from the introduction of the obligation to join professional associations: while the economic situation is particularly complicated, these new obligations should not undermine the economic viability of these players. We were also alerted, particularly during the hearings conducted by the rapporteur before the Committee on Finance examined the text, about the risks of incompatibility of the arrangements with European Union law. It would be regrettable if the mechanism that we are about to vote for was subject to lengthy litigation. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] Vigilant on these two aspects, the Action Together Group will vote in favour of this bill, which is based on a good balance between consumer protection and the support of industry professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u58	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u59	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u60	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u61	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u62	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 6, 12 and 36, to delete the article. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u63	It is intended to delete the single article. ORIAS carries out a public service mission and already carries out checks. You claim that this body does not have the financial and human resources to carry out more checks, but it would be enough to allocate them, which would be much cheaper than to create professional associations with compulsory membership, the cost of which will sooner or later be deferred to consumers. The purpose of the amendment is to extend the tasks of the ORIAS. Amendment No 10 by Eric Woerth, which we shall be considering in a few moments, follows the same logic: we want a simpler and less expensive system, without creating new structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u64	Mr Patrick Hetzel's Amendment No 12 is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u65	It is also intended to delete the article. The question of reforming brokering activities has been latent for many years. If necessary, the current economic environment is not conducive to its deployment, especially since the creation of compulsory professional associations approved by the CPRA could result in an estimated cost of €20 million per year for insurance and banking intermediaries. For some, such a charge could be avoided by simply extending the missions of ORIAS by decree. In all cases, and because the brokering profession is divided on this reform, it would be preferable to provide a full impact assessment before the text is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u66	What is the committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u67	I have already had the opportunity to develop my arguments in committee, but I repeat them with great pleasure. ORIAS is an association that maintains a register and whose income comes from professional contributions. The identification of the needs of each profession and their support for training will be better ensured by professional associations than by the ORIAS, which brings together not only intermediaries but also insurers, and which will also be obliged, in order to increase its resources, to increase the contributions of its members. It should be added that the ORIAS does not have the necessary skills to accompany brokers, the various intermediaries and their employees in the field of training. The sole task of ORIAS is to maintain a register. It seems unthinkable to entrust him with such an important task as quality control and monitoring of training, as well as the implementation of mediation, since, as I remind you, this is compulsory. Mediation is unfortunately not proposed by all professionals, which the consumer is the first to suffer. The purpose of the bill – I want to say this: a bill – is to protect the consumer. However, in order to protect it, we must ensure that intermediaries operating in France offer quality service. That is why we have to check that their requirements are being met. It seems logical to entrust this control to representatives of the profession itself, since different types of brokering exist. Recall that, despite the ORIAS register, we are not able to quantify the number of intermediaries, some of them being multitasking or having registered several times. We really need professional associations. To entrust the control mission to ORIAS is inconceivable. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u69	I apologise in advance for repeating myself, but I want to take the time to respond to these amendments, if only by correction. The Government has made an expert assessment of your proposal, but has rejected it, for four reasons, which I shall briefly state. First of all, the purpose of ORIAS is to be a register content. It is intended to register intermediaries in insurance, banking and finance, not to accompany them. Then – as you know, since you mentioned it – ORIAS goes far beyond brokers alone, since it also includes representatives of insurance companies, banks or general agents. Furthermore, in its structure, ORIAS has only twelve permanent members – you may not agree on this point, but it is important to recall it. Twelve permanents to accompany forty thousand or more insurance brokers and thirteen thousand brokers in bank operations and payment services – to name but a few – seem simply impossible: more than an increase in resources, we would need a change in governance. Finally, there is, to date, no control of the CPRA or the State over the ORIAS, which would therefore require, again, the creation of a new mechanism. In conclusion, the measure proposed by the amendments, if implemented, could produce an effect that their authors did not seek: instead of simplifying the reform, it would lead to its complexity. It would not be a matter of extending the role of ORIAS, except to make sense of the reform aimed at accompanying brokers, but rather of completely transforming its scope, its raison d'être, its structure, its governance, its organisation and its means. Argument of weight, it seems difficult to justify that a structure, of which the brokers are not even members, fulfils an accompanying role. For these reasons, and although I appreciate the humour of our dear and tender Chairman of the Finance Committee, the Government is giving an unfavorable opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u70	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u71	Whether professional accompaniment should be entrusted to ORIAS or professional associations is a false debate. Either we entrust the accompaniment to the professional associations on the grounds that the supervisory competence must fall within the scope of the ORIAS – which would be simpler, in substance, but also more efficient, faster and less expensive – or you sell us dream by saying that you will create professional associations that will obviously not do what they are supposed to do! The point on which our attention should be focused is that of effective control of the activity. Accompaniment is certainly useful, I do not disagree, but control is essential, particularly that of the CPRA. Rather than self-control, we need to talk about self-accompaniment. Evidence of this is that the amendments that we have tabled to create infringements of certain rules by brokers have been found inadmissible under Article 45! It is therefore good that the purpose of the bill is not to improve control. That's not true! That is why I come to support these amendments to delete the article. Leave the text useless, as much as delete it! When you propose a text to really control the sector, perhaps we will be more interested in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u72	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u73	Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has submitted a number of simplification texts to us. With this text, you do the opposite, because you make the device more complex by creating additional structures designed to work side by side. What are the prerogatives of ORIAS? It verifies that the applicant for registration or renewal fulfils the conditions of access and exercise of the profession. You had the opportunity to add monitoring or training control missions. The ORIAS kept the register, but nothing prevented you from expanding its skills to avoid creating new structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u74	On Amendment No 19, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 19, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u75	I'll come back for a moment on what I said earlier: why make it complicated? I am aware that we will not be able to agree because we do not understand each other. However, we are pursuing the same objectives: we want these professions to be more regulated and the consumer to be defended, as Véronique Louwagie and other speakers have said very well. It seems that you are committed to the idea of creating an intermediary association for intermediaries. That's a lot of intermediation! In addition, there is already one: it is called ORIAS and has never been as famous as it was tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u77	You say it's just a register, but it's not just that! ORIAS employs people who issue registrations and monitor the quality and good repute of the professionals concerned each year. It is therefore sufficient to build on the existing structure and to extend its powers, rather than to create ex nihilo a new body. It is a work of titan, which should please a reformist government such as yours – I understand that you have set ambitious goals in this area! You can completely reform ORIAS and give it more resources; In any case, it is the professionals who pay and it is they who will also pay for the associations that you want to create. If they are to emerge, they will have to be organised and recruited, whereas it would be sufficient to extend the powers of the ORIAS in all areas enabling the proper application of the European Insurance Intermediation Directive, in particular mediation, the monitoring of qualifications and the monitoring of the hours of training carried out. Control of actual activity is the responsibility of the CPRA; Indeed, as an association, ORIAS cannot in any case carry out this type of control, but the intermediary associations you want to create will not be able to do so either. While sharing good practices and organizing training is only a matter of sharing good practices, there is nothing to prevent private sector organisations from doing so themselves. Why oblige professionals to do so in associations to which membership would be compulsory? It's a funny idea, very dirigist and very complicated; It is basically a form of French planning that corresponds to everything we should no longer see in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u78	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u79	We must not disarm the public authorities, but rather give them the arsenal they need, as has been pointed out by several of our colleagues. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to determine the means to be entrusted to ORIAS and the CPRA to enable them to carry out their control tasks fully and effectively. The requirement for brokers to join a licensed association may seem an interesting idea, but it obviously has blind angles. First, membership will be paid – it will cost 500 euros a year – and these contributions will be the only resource of the associations. They will therefore be both judges and parties and ultimately find themselves in a conflict of interest situation. Any sanction of exclusion against a member will deprive them of resources: how can we then imagine that decisions will be made without any ulterior motives? Worse still, these associations must be representative. Such precision is likely to lead to serious drifts: since the membership of one of the professional associations is the sesame necessary to exercise, how can one imagine that there will not appear to be a distortion of competition, marked by exchanges of good processes, between the brokers who will sit in the bodies of the associations and the others? Of course, as you recalled, CPRA retains its oversight and sanction powers, but that is not a guarantee: some of these associations risk becoming unions dedicated to protecting its members from the regulator, complicating CPRA's control work. The aim of this amendment is, therefore, to assess the tasks of the players in the sector in order to better protect the consumer, which should be our common objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u81	Mr President of the Committee on Finance, I have already answered this question in committee and in the presentation of Mrs Louwagie's amendment: I think we have exhausted all the arguments that could be used to say that ORIAS is not the appropriate body for the support of professionals. Mr Bricout, I wonder about the ability to assess the means of ORIAS, which is an association responsible for maintaining a register. In addition, in the summary statement of your amendment, you question the impartiality of future associations. Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u83	If I take care not to repeat myself, I shall give an opinion against the two amendments No 10 by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and No 19 by Jean-Louis Bricout, for the same reasons as those of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u84	I put to the vote Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u85	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 17 Against 58
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u86	I have before me three amendments, Nos 15, 8 and 14, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 8 and 14 are identical. Mr Patrick Hetzel's amendment No. 15 is being defended. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u87	It relates to the scope of the proposed legislation. At this stage, credit institutions, financing companies, portfolio management companies and investment firms are excluded. This exclusion is fully justified by the fact that these undertakings are approved and monitored on an ongoing basis by the legally competent authorities. On the other hand, and this is the subject of the amendment, the fact that insurance staff are excluded from the scheme is not legally justified. This situation is likely to create a difficulty with regard to the constitutional principle applicable in this field, which is that of responsibility for the personal fact of the insurance general staff: from the legal, statutory and contractual point of view, the mandate uniting insurance undertakings with insurance general staff does not in any way oblige them to verify compliance with the conditions of access and exercise of their agents. Maintaining the exclusion of General Insurance Officers from the scheme would also undermine the constitutional principle of equality. That is why I propose that you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u88	Mr Patrick Hetzel's Amendment No 14 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u89	With regard to Amendment No 15 on intermediaries carrying out their activities under the freedom to provide services or freedom of establishment, we have already mentioned its non-compliance with European law. European law is being invoked in every sense and it is being made to say what we want, but in this case I assure you that this proposal contravenes the free movement and the very principle of the European passport. It is therefore really impossible to integrate these providers in a binding way, but the existence of the "professional association" label will encourage them – even if they are not obliged to do so – to comply with this level of requirement and will help our citizens to make the right choices. In the case of general insurance staff, whose case has already been referred to in committee, they are registered with ORIAS; As such, they are subject to prior checking of access to the profession. They are then subject to an agreement with insurers, which thus controls the way in which they operate; In addition, certain prerogatives of the CPRA affecting them are also the subject of a convention. Unfavorable opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u91	The opinion is also unfavourable on these three amendments, for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u92	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 5, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u93	It relates to the conditions for membership in a professional association. It aims to guarantee insurance and reinsurance brokers or their agents the freedom to choose the professional association to which they belong. Madam rapporteur, you have indicated in committee that eight associations are in the process of being formed: it is important that there is no constraint on the choice that insurance brokers will make, so that everyone can join whatever they want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u95	Require an association to accept any membership would be contrary to the right of free association; In addition, the adoption in committee of amendments by your group – the Republicans – and by Mrs Magnier introduced safeguards to ensure that an association refused membership, as well as the possibility to appeal against that refusal, was justified. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u97	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u98	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u99	I will ask the question in another way: is that to say that insurance intermediaries, brokers and agents will not be able to choose the professional association they want? I would like a precise answer to this question, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u100	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u101	With a precise answer: the proposed law already provides guarantees to assure brokering professionals that they will be able to be members of the approved professional association of their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u102	A withdrawal, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u103	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u104	Its purpose is to examine the various obligations of these professional associations, which will have to verify – as has been said – the conditions under which their members enter and carry out their activities, as well as their compliance with the requirements of the profession. The current wording of the last sentence of paragraph 4 refers to an extensive interpretation of the concept of "professional requirements", which tends to encompass all the requirements applicable to the profession, whether they are of legislative, regulatory or even the doctrine of the supervisory and supervisory authorities. It is therefore proposed that you clearly specify the occupational requirements chosen, in order to limit them only to the conditions of professional capacity, of continuing training – you have often mentioned this subject, Madam rapporteur – and of good repute. It is very important to limit these requirements and the related controls. The amendment also seeks to clarify that the checks will be carried out on the basis of the statements of the members of the associations only.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u106	Mrs Louwagie, your amendment is very restrictive: at present, nothing prevents associations from raising with their members the existence of professional civil liability insurance and the adequacy of their guarantee to the commitments they have undertaken – something that the ORIAS does not do. The Insurance Distribution Directive – DDA – effectively allows European states to delegate control of access conditions to professional associations. There is therefore no reason to restrict, as you ask, the scope of these requirements. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u107	Amendments Nos 13 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 21 and 22 by Mrs Cendra Motin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u109	This amendment is the first in a series in which the Government wishes to reintroduce the subparagraphs which confer upon the CPRA the competence to approve and supervise approved professional associations, which are essential for their proper functioning. The role of the CPRA is crucial to ensuring that the professionals to whom they join are representative and impartial, that they have competent and honourable legal representatives and administrators, and that they are able to carry out and maintain their missions through appropriate material and human resources. It is therefore necessary for the CPRA to be able to approve the rules on sanctions that associations may impose against their members.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u111	I am, of course, very much in favour of re-establishing the original text of the bill. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u112	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u113	Madam Secretary of State, you have de facto abolished the intermediation carried out by the management associations approved for small businesses, on the pretext that such a system was complicated without really being controlled, whereas these associations have been doing so for a long time and rather well. In the same law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law, you have removed, for other companies, the need to call on auditors, on the pretext of simplifying and reducing costs for professionals. But here you are planning the intervention of control associations, which is going to cost the professionals more, even though it could have been avoided. Why such incoherence?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u115	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u116	Allow me, Madam Secretary of State, to have doubts about the impartiality of these associations, since their powers of sanction will be exercised on the same brokers who make them live by the contributions they pay. The conflict of interest seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u117	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u118	I would be remiss if I did not answer, even briefly, a question from Eric Woerth. Our aim is to structure a profession which, for lack of accompaniment, has experienced many problems. You are paralleling the auditors, but the simplification measures we have taken in the CAPTE law are not at all of the same nature. During the review of the PACTE Act, amendments reflected some concerns about the future of the auditors. This profession explores new areas of activity, such as business support in areas such as social and environmental responsibility or integrated performance reporting. We continue to work with the auditors, but I maintain that the support they offered to small businesses was a very heavy burden for them. Without going too far, I think I can say that the amount of the contribution due by brokers to a professional association will not be the same. I come to Amendment No 30 which is intended to restore the paragraphs which gave the CPRA the competence to approve and supervise approved professional associations. I repeat, the objective is to ensure that professionals meet certain basic requirements, such as representativeness or good repute of their directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u119	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u120	This amendment, discussed and subsequently withdrawn in committee, concerns the procedure for the withdrawal of membership by one of these associations approved by the CPRA. It must be made clear that withdrawal must be decided by a reasoned decision of a committee which fulfils guarantees of independence and impartiality, specially constituted within the approved professional association.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u122	With this amendment, as drafted, you go back to the one we adopted in committee, which was based on the procedure applied by the CIF associations, which you are familiar with. The solution we have chosen provides more flexibility, allows for discussion between CPRA and professional associations, and a harmonized application. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u124	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u125	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No 25, which is the subject of the Government's amended Subamendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u126	We propose that, in the event of withdrawal of membership, the approved association should be able to communicate this information to the other associations, so that self-regulation takes place at the level of the sector and not just that of the association.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u127	The rapporteur has the floor to support the amended sub-amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u128	Amendment No 25 provides, in the event of a decision to withdraw membership, that a professional association may inform the other associations, but its wording refers to provisions deleted in the Finance Committee. The purpose of this sub-amendment is to correct this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u129	What is the committee's opinion on the sub-amendment and the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u130	I am in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment, so that the wording of the committee can be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u131	Mr Patrick Hetzel's Amendment No 18 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u132	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u133	The reform that you are considering does not solve the problem posed by foreign brokers, which is legally impossible to compel to join a professional association. Consequently, they will be offered a competitive advantage over brokers based in France, who will be subject to additional legal and financial requirements. This amendment proposes that all structures operating in France should be subject to the same legislation, in order to avoid a competitive situation which I would call unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u135	As you said yourself, Mrs Louwagie: under the principle of free movement, it is impossible to force the actors benefiting from the European passport, and thus from the freedom to provide services – LPS – and from the freedom of establishment – LE – to join these associations. We cannot therefore adopt this amendment. On the other hand, I would point out that we have taken action on crypto-actives in the PACTE law. When membership is not compulsory but is widely practised, actors outside the country eventually voluntarily join to attest to the quality of their work and services to their clients. Our fellow citizens will also have access to this information as it will be referenced by ORIAS; They will therefore be able to choose, knowingly, between a member professional of one association and another who is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u137	For the reasons that have just been explained clearly, my opinion is also unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u138	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u139	Like my previous amendments, it is intended to reintroduce the paragraphs which confer upon the CPRA the competence to approve and supervise approved professional associations, these essential provisions having been separated from the text of the proposed law on the basis of article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u140	I have before me three amendments, Nos 17, 9 and 37, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 17 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 9 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie are being defended. Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u141	It is intended to extend the date of application of this text from 1 April 2022 to 1 January 2023. The health crisis associated with the covid-19 pandemic has turned into a social and economic crisis that affects, with varying degrees of intensity, all sectors of activity. It will inevitably lead to a significant rise in the unemployment rate and an increase in the number of business failures. In 2021, the scale of the bankruptcies and the rise in unemployment will directly affect the brokerage firms, which will be confronted, all branches combined with the decline of the insurable mass. Thus, while their sales for 2020 have been relatively preserved due to the peculiarities of our production cycle, brokers will be affected by the crisis in turn, and remain so until their customers manage to recover. In this context, this reform will increase the legal and economic pressure – the new measures will lead to a financial burden, as we have already pointed out – on the managers of brokering firms. As for the professional associations responsible for implementing the reform, it is essential that they have had the time, even before the entry into force of the scheme, to organize themselves on a material level, in particular through the creation of a dedicated, humane computer system, through substantial recruitment and training. The amendment aims to preserve the sustainability of the brokerage sector by allowing the various actors time to prepare for the efficient implementation of the measures resulting from the new reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u143	Thanks to professional associations, we seek to accompany brokers who face difficulties, and who are sometimes alone. April 1, 2022 is the right time to create these associations, whose work will help brokers through the crisis. Moreover, as I explained in committee, the date of 1 January is to be excluded, since its simultaneous renewal with the renewal of ORIAS registrations would pose a series of difficulties. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u145	Unfavorable opinion on Amendments No 17 by Mr Hetzel and No 9 by Mrs Louwagie, for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur. Mrs Boëlle, the Government hopes that the date of entry into force of the text will allow all the actors involved in the reform to apply its provisions under the best conditions and with the greatest legal certainty. But this must be done without wasting too much time. This reform is otherwise expected, at least important for the profession, and should not be postponed. Opinion also unfavourable on Amendment No 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u146	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u147	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam rapporteur, in replying to my colleague, you say that the measures you are proposing will allow brokers to go through the crisis, but I do not see how that would be the case. If that's your feeling, you're really disconnected from reality. Yes, I have to say it! The context is completely inadequate: we are in a complicated health and economic situation, and all intermediaries – brokers and insurance agents – must take on very complex tasks. You can see a text of this nature being proposed to the vote and you can be told that it will make it possible to go through the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u148	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u149	It is true that it seems urgent to wait. First of all, there is the crisis: this is not the time to complicate things. Why propose this text now? You said that professional associations had a sanctioning power, that they could exclude a member. In the event of an exclusion, the association shall inform the CPRA and the broker shall be without membership. As membership is compulsory, it is no longer referenced. What is he doing then? Will he join another association, when it has just been cancelled, certainly because of bad business practices? Frankly, I don't see how your text will protect the consumer!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u150	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u151	I won't be long. I only have two or three questions, which no insurance policy will answer. [[Ms. Émilie Bonnivard applauds]] I want to know if out of happiness, in the face of the harsh times and the growing anxiety, we will stop talking for some time about animal health, secularism, Republic, the role of churches – on the pretext that there is one that is not well at all, and only in part – and proportionally cherished for... Oh France, sweet France, mother of civilization, France of Enlightenment, calm us, put us back in the way, take us back in your arms, France dear, we are crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u152	The Government's amendment No. 32 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u153	On Amendment No 20, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u154	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the proposed legislation in the overseas communities of the Pacific. On the one hand, it specifies the application in New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna of the provisions relating to intermediaries in bank operations and payment services. This clarification concerns the provisions in force as well as those of the proposed law and involves both the introduction of "Lifou meters" tables, following the latest recommendations of the Council of State – these tables will specify the articles applicable in their latest version – and the rewriting of the adjustments necessary for the proper application of the provisions in these communities. On the other hand, it extends to these overseas communities the amendment of the CAPR's jurisdiction provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u155	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u156	It's a report request, for lack of better. In fact, when new offences or new offences are created for non-compliance with the rules of the profession, they are refused in the name of section 45. Therefore, only the requests for reports to deal with the substance of the matter remain. How to control the sector? What are CPRA's roles and missions in this area, and especially what are its means? We want to know what should be done and how the CPRA should be equipped to carry out possible pseudo-controls by approved associations, but above all the controls that are supposed to be carried out in the sector to regulate it. By telling you all this, which is nothing revolutionary, I am already making a mistake since a whole series of insurance brokering practices should simply be banned. We're talking about people acting as intermediaries for potentially fraudulent products, who we'll know are, and people have been conned at the very end of the process, when customers will be referred to a pseudo-mediation that is not in effect and that we're struggling to control. If I can't defend an ideal, I'm asking for a report. Could we at least ensure that public authorities are able to control this sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u158	One can certainly ask for a report from the Government, even if the control of the law – you say so six times a week – is normally the responsibility of Parliament, and a request for a report is to delegate that competence; But I am puzzled by the wording of the amendment. You are asking for an assessment of the terms and conditions for transferring the control of associations to the CPRA. Associations that do not have control – they are not yet created – are unlikely to transfer anything to the CPRA. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u160	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u161	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u162	With regard to the first part of the argument, concerning requests for reports, I have heard it for three years. Either you change the Constitution and revise your use of Article 45, which is akin to censorship – we can then debate the substance and table real amendments – or you stop replying in this way, because it's quite painful! I understand that when we are on the bench of the committee or the government, we can please ourselves by saying: "Ah, you are asking for a report when control is being done here in Parliament! » But monitoring, I have done so in the framework of the committee on evaluation and monitoring of public policies in the National Assembly; The report noted the weak capacity of the CPRA and a lack of internal and external regulation of the banking and insurance sector. So I'm doing my job, so...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u163	Asking for a report from the government, is that what you call doing your job?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u164	... but when I want to table amendments, they are declared inadmissible. We do what we can with the means we have! As for the wording of the amendment, it was intended precisely to have you answer in this way, that is to say, to hear you confirm that these associations will not be used for anything, since they will not be able to control it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u165	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u166	I know that the moment is not simple – I too have had many amendments rejected – and the time is advanced, but whatever our differences on board, I would like to point out that the person sitting on the bench, in this case I, deserve respect. Your remarks and your way of expressing yourself are inappropriate. We are in Parliament, in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u167	I thought I was pretty nice. I could've done worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u168	You're slipping more and more, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I tell you this with great calm – a quality that does not characterize you: given the period we are going through, you do not honor the national representation. We do not agree, but respect should be on every bench in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u170	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u171	Rather than strengthening existing structures, you have offered us a sluggish assembly – without carrying out an impact assessment, which we deeply regret. In the previous amendment tabled by my colleague Bricout, the members of the Socialist and Related Group regretted the choice of the ex nihilo establishment of professional associations and expressed their fears of drifts due to this reform: poor scheme of incentives for professional associations which will be both judge and party when making a sanction decision, risk of distortion of competition between brokers members of representative bodies and others, who will be subject to their votes, risk that certain associations will protect their members against the controls of the CPRA, etc. Perhaps these fears are unfounded, but perhaps not. It seems to us that with this reform you introduce into our law, in our professional practices and in our society a very liberal, Anglo-Saxon-inspired trend that seems pernicious to us. In any case, only a posteriori assessment of the effects of the reform can tell whether our fears are justified. Let us not wait for scandals to emerge and give us the means to make sure that no drift has resulted from the adoption of this law. We therefore propose an evaluation amendment which provides that within two years of the date of entry into force of the text, the Government shall submit to Parliament a report giving a comprehensive review, in terms of monitoring, of the actions of the body keeping the register, as well as of the CPRA and the associations that you have intended to create.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u172	All right! Anyway, at the time of this evaluation, they will no longer be in power...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u174	I am not, in principle, opposed to evaluating the application of a text two years after its entry into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u175	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u176	However, I want to calm your fears: I have drawn inspiration from the reform which has been applied to CIFs for several years and which has proved its worth in terms of the consolidation of the sector and the support of professionals. In this case, your request bothers me – I'm really sorry – because it includes the ORIAS, the CPRA and the professional associations, which will pose a real difficulty in ensuring the quality and completeness of the report required. I therefore regret to express an opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u178	The parliamentarian I was a few weeks ago – since I have only been Secretary of State for six months – obviously feels that this is an interesting amendment. Let us be clear: I agree with the assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u179	Evaluation is a priority for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u180	However, as the rapporteur pointed out, it might be difficult to combine work on ORIAS and the CPRA into the same document. To get to know you a little bit, I know that you are seizing your role of evaluating the law without necessarily waiting, and that is very happy, the authorization of the Government or the reports it can produce. Secondly, if you agree, I suggest that you redefine the scope of this amendment, with the rapporteur, in the framework of the parliamentary shuttle. You know better than I do that the time frame for assessing the law is usually three years rather than two, but that is only my point of view. You are totally free in your choice. I, for my part, have a request for withdrawal, because it seems to me that a request for a report can be made in the course of the parliamentary shuttle, which I believe would be justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u181	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u182	You are proposing, Madam Secretary of State, that I withdraw the amendment. Forgive me, but I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u183	I put Amendment No. 20 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u184	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 20 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u185	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u186	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u187	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u188	The next item is the debate on the bill ratifying various orders made under section 11 of Act No. 2020-290 of 23 March 2020 to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 (No. 3236, 3773). Ladies and gentlemen, our debates can hardly be prolonged very long after midnight. If you would like us to complete the examination of the text this evening, which would have some consistency, I would ask you to draw the appropriate conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u189	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u190	The bill before us is designed to ratify four ordinances, all of which were enacted under the Emergency Act to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, which provided a legislative basis for the emergency measures taken by the Government. I would like here to recall the context in which we had to legislate last March. The Government had asked the Parliament to authorize it to make such orders. We were then facing an unknown virus that was stopping the planet. As I was among you at the very moment when these orders were being presented to Parliament, I can assure you that the French administration has demonstrated, in this trial, all its ability to deal with the urgency and to respond agilely. Thanks to it, we have been able to deploy in a few days one of the most protective systems in the world for our businesses, but also for employment. Above all, we have been maintaining it for months and adapting it constantly, thanks to you, parliamentarians, but also thanks to the know-how and expertise of our administrations. I would therefore like to greet and sincerely thank all those who, in Bercy and in all the deconcentrated administrations, accompany on a daily basis those who make our economy. Although the time of emergency is unfortunately not over, the measures contained in these orders have a legislative rank. It is therefore absolutely necessary for Parliament to seize and ratify them. First of all, you are proposed to ratify the legal framework of the Solidarity Fund, through which nearly 2 million companies benefited from almost EUR 12 billion in 2020. This unrivalled support has allowed most of our companies to keep their heads out of the water and still allows it, after several important extensions decided over the months, to which parliamentarians from all groups have clearly contributed. In addition, you are proposed to ratify the Order of 17 June 2020 on the granting of current account advances to firms in difficulty by investment funds and venture capital companies, which was another of our responses to the large cash flow needs of enterprises. The aim was to enable investment capital players to strengthen their support to their portfolio companies in addition to the important public resources mobilized. This has given investment funds sufficient regulatory flexibility to provide financial support to companies in their portfolios, which this exceptional crisis threatened and still threatened bankruptcy. Thanks to this order, private equity funds have been able to temporarily exceed the statutory ceiling applied in normal time, which, as you know, limits their ability to make advances in current account to the companies of which they are shareholders. Ratification of the Ordinance will confirm the deadline for the return of actors to the ordinary system; it runs until 30 June 2022. By securing this time of regularization, you will preserve the conditions for financial support of French companies by these funds. The same logic of a derogation regime to strengthen business support prevailed for the Ordinance of 17 June 2020 on various measures in the field of public order, also subject to your ratification. This order introduced into the law of public order tools that support the economic operators most vulnerable by the crisis. It also contributes to the implementation of the Government's economic recovery plan. The order allows companies in judicial reorganization to participate in public procurement and concession contracts. Previously, it was imperative that companies in the process of judicial reform should be empowered. This simplification makes it possible to maintain the activity and jobs of the companies concerned on a sustainable basis, while contributing to the clearance of their liabilities through the conclusion of new contracts. Finally, the order gives SMEs privileged access to global public procurement, setting 10% of the minimum execution share to be given by the tenderer to SMEs. These two measures, continued in the law of 7 December 2020 on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law, reflect our commitment to the economic fabric of proximity. We are all convinced, I believe, that the recovery will be carried out by the companies in our territories and that public control must undoubtedly be an accelerator of recovery. Therefore, until 31 December 2023, the economic and financial capacity of candidates for a public procurement contract cannot be assessed during the periods when they could have suffered the effects of the health crisis. The economic disruptions of the period are indeed caused by the virus, not by the entrepreneurs. Finally, I turn for a moment to clause 3 of this bill, which is intended to ratify the Order of 17 June 2020 on the reorganization of the Public Investment Bank and amending the Order of 29 June 2005 on the Public Investment Bank. The reorganization operation of BPIFrance consists, I recall, in the absorption of the umbrella company BPIFrance SA by its former banking subsidiary BPIFrance Finance SA, which thus becomes the new parent company of the group. The purpose of this operation is, in particular, to give the credit institution an important additional solvency, which will enable it to play its full role in the financing of enterprises – it already plays such a role – particularly in the context of the recovery. BPIFrance now consolidates on its balance sheet the subsidiary BPIFrance Participations, which gives it a strengthened capital base and a solvency ratio multiplied by about 2.3. Without this operation, for example, the launch of a green loan to finance EUR 1.5 million of the investments of companies involved in their ecological transition would have put the bank under prudential pressure. By ratifying the above-mentioned order of 17 June 2020, you will legally secure this new organisation vis-à-vis all of BPIFrance's contractual partners, whose operation is based on trust, like that of all market players. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The measures that we have taken in the emergency have proved their worth in the face of the urgency and also serve as a lever to trigger the recovery. In the exceptional situation created by the pandemic, it is on these two legs, the treatment of the emergency and the revival, that Bruno Le Maire, my colleagues from Bercy and I, with the help of our public agents, who have been, are and will be, I am absolutely certain, at our side and alongside the companies in the difficult situation that persists.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u191	Mrs Dominique David, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u192	The bill we are considering this evening will allow us to ratify several orders made under section 11 of the Act of March 23, 2020 to deal with the covid -19 epidemic. If this bill goes back to mechanisms already implemented during the crisis, it has the merit of reminding the French of one thing: we have protected them and, after ten months of crisis, we are still at their side. To the extent that it tends to ratify orders amending previous orders, it also reveals that the scheme has been adapted to the stream and closest to the ground, to meet the needs of employees, SMEs, TPEs, ITEs and investors. We welcome the agility with which the Government, the Parliament and the administration have responded to the urgency. Our vote this evening will therefore focus on a real toolbox, the content of which I would like to detail in my turn. Article 1 – which is covered by Amendment No 5, which I tabled today – and Article 1e bis tend to ratify the Orders on the Solidarity Fund. I would remind you that this will have made it possible to distribute EUR 12.8 billion of aid to 1.9 million companies by 21 June 2021. As 2020 progressed, the eligibility criteria and amounts were adjusted to take account of the various identified cases of closure or decrease in activity. Access to the fund remains simple but demanding, thanks to the valuable work of your administration, Madam Secretary of State. Out of 100,000 ex post checks, just over 21% of applications were found to be fraudulent: most of them came from companies already in default or in sleep, who thought they could take advantage of the effect of a bounty. Recovery actions have, of course, been initiated. To those who say that we do not do enough, that we do not act fast enough or that we throw money through the windows, I answer that we always help with efficiency and discernment. Section 2 of the Bill is intended to ratify the Ordinance on various measures in the field of public procurement. An adaptation of the law was necessary to multiply the effects of public procurement, which is a powerful lever of stimulus for our TPEs and SMEs. Article 1 of the Ordinance prohibits the exclusion of undertakings in judicial reorganization proceedings. Article 2 requires, for global public procurement, that at least 10 % of the execution of the contract be entrusted to SMEs until 31 July 2021. Article 3 prohibits public purchasers from taking into account the decline in turnover associated with the epidemic when examining a company's economic capacity. These provisions, which I invite you to ratify tonight, strike a balance between respect for the principles of public order and the necessary adaptation of our right to the crisis. Articles 3 and 3 bis of the draft law are intended to ratify the order for the reorganization of the Public Investment Bank. The Commission has made significant changes in the organisation of BPIFrance. The objective was to double its solvency ratios to increase the group's lending and collateral capacity. This reorganization, in fact an absorption of BPIFrance SA by its subsidiary BPIFrance Financière SA, made it possible to release 400 million euros during the first confinement. Thanks to this sum, BPIFrance's guarantee funds were abounded without any additional budgetary allocation from the State, and €2.9 billion of loans Atout were distributed to companies, without any guarantee. Finally, Article 4 seeks to ratify the Ordinance which provides for derogations from the ordinary law of advances granted to shareholders. Under this order, risk mutual funds, innovation mutual funds and local investment funds may make advances of not 15% but 20% of their assets. For professional private equity funds and venture capital companies, this limit is increased from 20 per cent to 30 per cent. In the present case, it is a matter of allowing mutual funds to grant, between 1 March and 31 December 2020, higher advances than usual to companies with a turnover loss of at least 10 % between 1 March and 30 April 2020. The return to the common law ceiling will have to be made by 30 June 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the logical continuation of the measures taken throughout 2020, the ratification of these ordinances is, I would stress, an illustration of the work we have done for ten months and are continuing. I would also like to take this rostrum as a reminder to the players in the economy – companies as employees; SMEs, TPEs like ETI and large companies – and the French – to which I address myself through the national representation – that we have protected them. While the spectre of a new confinement cannot be ruled out, we will still be at their side. I will therefore ask you to adopt this text without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u193	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u194	The crisis we have been experiencing since March 2020 has led the legislator very quickly to empower the Government to legislate through ordinances. From March to June, sixty-two orders were issued, several of which were in the economic and financial fields. This bill, which has been referred to the Finance Committee, is not intended to ratify, far from that, all the orders made in these areas, since it concerns only four of them. However, these are important ordinances in the legislative field which falls within the purview of the Finance Committee. It was also pleased that the commission had had to deal with those orders through the bill to ratify them, bearing in mind that the authorization given to the Government by article 11 of the Act of 23 March 2020 had been requested in a text referred to the Law Commission. The committee I chair did not have the opportunity to discuss it, because it was then occupied by the equally urgent examination and vote of the first collective budget for 2020, which was intended to open up the first appropriations for the response to the crisis. The first order proposed for ratification is the Solidarity Fund Ordinance of 10 June 2020. This is not the order that created the fund – which is dated March 25, 2020 – but an order that amended it and extended its life. Since then, the finance law for 2021 has renewed the fund again. The second order is the Ordinance of 17 June 2020 on various measures in the field of public procurement. It has relaxed the conditions for access to markets and concession contracts and aims to favour SMEs. Since then, some of its provisions have been incorporated and codified by the law of 7 December 2020 on the acceleration and simplification of public action. However, it is still useful to ratify it. The third order reorganizes the Public Investment Bank. This reorganization allowed BPIFrance – whose Managing Director, Nicolas Dufourcq, was interviewed last week by the Finance Committee – to allocate additional amounts to provide loans in support of companies. Last autumn, the Government introduced an article in the bill to speed up and simplify public action, ratifying the order, but it was censored by the Constitutional Council, which considered it a horseman. Finally, the fourth order is intended to facilitate the granting of current account advances to firms in difficulty. This is also a useful measure to respond to the crisis. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] While we can be pleased to have the opportunity to review these provisions and give them full legislative value, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the fact that it may be appropriate to extend the process. In fact, other bills ratifying orders issued in response to the epidemic concern economic and financial matters. They would probably deserve to be examined as well, so that we do not allow too many unratified orders to remain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u195	In the general debate, Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u196	The four ordinances that are now subject to our ratification are designed to respond to the economic consequences of a state of health emergency. The first, dated 25 March 2020, relates to the Solidarity Fund. Since then, it has been revised eleven times, in order to adapt to the changing health situation, by fine-tuning the subsidy arrangements according to the sectors and types of enterprises. On 26 January, the Solidarity Fund supported more than 1.9 million beneficiaries, representing a budgetary commitment of 13.2 billion euros, including 117 million for 18600 companies in my department, Moselle. The solidarity fund, the partial activity, the postponement of tax and social contributions and the state-guaranteed loans are the first line of aid to companies, to enable them to overcome this crisis with as little loss as possible and to prepare for recovery tomorrow. The Solidarity Fund, as managed by the agents of the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – to which I wish to pay tribute here, is a support tool with almost immediate effect: the request must be made within two days of the end of the period under which the aid is requested, and thanks to the rapid processing provided by public finance agents, the release of funds comes at a time when companies need it most. However, the vital speed that we must show at the heart of the crisis must not exempt us from exercising control. This is why the order provides for a five-year period during which the tax authorities will be able to control the beneficiaries. Such a two-stage operation is perfectly justified. We subscribe to this solidarity exercised as closely as possible to the needs and within a minimum of time, as well as to the permanent adaptation of the schemes to the economic shocks suffered by entrepreneurs and their employees. The second order creates, for the duration of the crisis, a specific regime for public orders. I would point out in passing that certain procedures introduced in an emergency have already been improved and sustained by the ASAP law, whether it is access to the markets of firms in recovery or that of TPE-SMEs to global public procurement. Once again, we welcome these advances. The reorganization of BPIFrance, which has increased its own funds and investment area, is also a source of satisfaction. Since the beginning of the crisis, the public investment bank has been a major player in the public response; It quickly mobilised itself, making it possible, as early as mid-March, to grant State-guaranteed loans, which benefited more than 660000 companies and whose outstanding assets now exceed EUR 120 billion. But his action cannot be summed up in this. BPIFrance has also launched a set of new products adapted to the current situation, such as rebound loans to the TPEs. It is fully committed to the recovery plan by accompanying the digitisation of TPE-SMEs; We can thank his teams for that. I have no doubt for a moment that the bank will be able to make appropriate use of these new equity funds. Finally, the approval or adjustment of the system of granting cash advances in current account for collective investment undertakings and venture capital companies makes it possible to support, at little cost, the cash flow of firms in difficulty, which are in great need of it in the context we know. Nevertheless, we regret that we do not have figures on the use of this mechanism. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In conclusion, the bill perfectly illustrates what orders must be: short texts prepared to deal with a difficult temporary situation, but whose provisions, before being perpetuated, must be the subject of in-depth debate such as this one. The Dem Group will therefore vote in favour of this ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u197	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u198	The crisis that we have been going through for almost a year now is unprecedented and of considerable magnitude, and its consequences go beyond the purely sanitary aspect. Last March, therefore, it was essential to act as quickly as possible with the establishment of a state of health emergency. During the review of the emergency law of 23 March 2020 to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, our group had insisted that by allowing the Government to legislate by ordinances, Parliament did not intend to grant it a blank sitting or renounce its control power, but only to enable it to act as quickly and effectively as possible in the face of the crisis, in the interests of our fellow citizens. As we know, the powers to legislate have been numerous and very wide-ranging, including economic but also legal, social and educational provisions. Tabled on 22 July 2020, the text we are looking at today aims to get Parliament to ratify four ordinances made pursuant to section 11 of the Act of 23 March 2020, all of which share the same objective: to support business activity to deal with the economic crisis following the pandemic. To the extent, however, that the finance law for 2021 has already taken over the main measure of the first order – extending the existence of the solidarity fund – and that the possibility of making use of the derogations provided for in the fourth order is now extinguished, only the study of the second and third orders seems to us to be relevant. We understand their interest, whether it is the various measures in the field of public orders – which provide for the relaxation of legislation in order to avoid penalising companies affected by the crisis – or the reorganization of the BPIFrance group with a view to increasing its credit capacity. However, I would like to warn you: in times of crisis, the question of the place of Parliament and the social partners and, more generally, the functioning of our institutions inevitably arise. In this regard, we must be very vigilant. The crisis is already of a social, health, financial and economic nature; It should not be equally democratic. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM and Dem groups]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of this text, while paying close attention to what will happen in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u199	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u200	I will not go back in detail to the content of the four ordinances that we are given to ratify this evening, as it has already been mentioned by previous speakers. The review of this bill is an opportunity to revisit the Government's policy of supporting economic actors and the various challenges that we will face in the coming months. First, we will all agree on the benches of this assembly to recognize that the state's response has been massive and rapid. Some would argue that the doctrine of "whatever it costs" greatly facilitates the creation of effective support mechanisms. It is obvious, but in the current times, when the strategy adopted for a public policy and its implementation are at the height of the situation, it should be stressed. The Order of 10 June 2020, which extends the duration of the Solidarity Fund, allows us to recall how this mechanism is the cornerstone of the Government's support measures. Deployed rapidly, it has been constantly adapted to the realities of the field. Since its inception, 1.9 million enterprises have benefited from this project for a total of more than EUR 13 billion. With the partial unemployment scheme, State-guaranteed loans and carry-overs, the Solidarity Fund is an indispensable safety net for many structures. I will not go further on the three other orders relating to BPIFrance, the rules of public order and the granting of advance payments in current account to firms in difficulty, all of which have provided answers adapted to the situation. If, unfortunately, we are still far from being out of the crisis, both health and economic, we must already clearly identify the many challenges ahead and the answers we can provide to them. In the very short term, we can already identify two closely linked ones: the end of aid schemes and the level of corporate debt. It is these two issues that will determine the success or failure of the exit from crisis of our companies. We have already begun to debate corporate debt by questioning the value of turning state-guaranteed loans into equity or quasi-equity. In fact, the EMPs have allowed companies to release cash and avoid bankruptcies, which in 2020 have reached a historically low level. At the same time, however, companies have mechanically increased their level of debt. Debt, as we know, is a slow poison that, if it reaches too high levels, undermines investment capacity and undermines the competitiveness of economic actors. It will therefore be up to us to draw up as soon as possible a clear action plan enabling companies to face up to the debt wall that is so worrying. In addition, we welcome the decision to postpone for one year the first repayments of EMPs, obtained through the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery. This was essential in order not to further weaken firms already in difficulty. I would like to stress in passing the commitment that the banking network has shown since the beginning of the crisis. Discussions on the issue of exit of aid will also have to take place as quickly as possible in order to give companies as much visibility as the health situation permits. High-precision work will then have to be done in order to best meet the specific needs of each sector of activity. Public debt, recovery or training are all additional challenges to be anticipated in order to ensure a rebound in an extremely degraded economic environment. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] It is therefore well aware of the work already done and focused on the many challenges facing our economy that the Action Together group will vote unreservedly in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u201	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u202	Given the interlocking health, economic and social crises, the year 2020 has changed the operating methods and structures of our economy. While the crisis of the covid-19 unfortunately continues to occupy a large part of the agenda in 2021, we note that our citizens have had to adapt to the different modalities of the state of health emergency. The bill before Parliament today is far from ratifying all the ordinances in this area, since it concerns only four out of a total of sixty-two. We would have liked all the orders to be ratified earlier, so that Parliament could play its part in readjustment of the arrangements according to the realities of the field. For example, thanks to requests from parliamentarians, the scope of the Solidarity Fund was extended at the beginning of the crisis. Another question: Madam Secretary of State, why did the Government choose to have these four ordinances ratified only, while others seem to be just as priority given the health and social situation? While we are on the eve of a third confinement, these four ordinances are welcome. Strengthening the financial capacity of many TPEs and SMEs today at risk, facilitating their access to credit and public contracts: this is necessary, if not urgent. However, we regret that the provisions to convert some of the State-guaranteed loans of the most difficult enterprises into quasi-equity are still not on the agenda. Throughout the autumn, however, we had alerted the Government to the need to transform loans from companies strangled by a mountain of debts into "covid recovery" bonds, repayable over 15 or 20 years, which could eventually be bought by the French people's savings, with interests far more remunerative than those of Book A. Our proposals have, however, remained unanswered. But as long as a colossal debt continues to threaten companies in difficulty, they will not invest and fear for their survival, thus fluctuating the entire economic system. We also proposed to break the chains of economic contamination by removing the privileges of public creditors in the order of payment of creditors, so that they would not be paid before the suppliers. This proposal also remained unanswered. Finally, on the form, we regret the weakening of the democratic exercise of the excessive use of ordinances, which diminish the role of the legislator. Remember that in March 2020 our group had approved the idea of proceeding by ordinances to legislate quickly. However, the margin of manoeuvre given to the Government should not prevent democratic control by national representation. Not only must the state of emergency be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, but the many orders made in the fight against covid-19 should have been subject to consultation with the two assemblies and ratified in their entirety. Of course, the measures contained therein should have ended with the end of the epidemic. The four orders we are ratifying this evening are a priority in the light of the economic situation. It is essential to support our economy in order to protect the work of our employees and prevent our businesses from ceasing their business. The IDU and independent group will vote on this bill, while questioning the fate of other ordinances, mainly those relating to the various health and social procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u203	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u204	The majority chose an accelerated procedure for the ratification of these four orders signed in June to deal with the covid-19 pandemic. This is a good thing: my speech will be deliberately brief. As a preamble, I would like to recall the opposition of the La France group to the emergency law of 23 March 2020 on which this bill is based. Indeed, my group and I have great reservations about the method. While our country is going through a crisis that is no longer just health, but also social and economic, it should not become political as well. The regime of ordinances and the political crisis in that country do not work well, whatever the intentions, including the most laudable ones. In times of crisis, on the contrary, it seems necessary to strengthen the relationship of trust between representatives and representatives, especially since this crisis tends to be long-term and the urgency becomes permanent. In general, consultation and democratic debate are not exclusive to a decision that is both effective and proportionate. On the substance, I will focus on two orders, starting with the one on the solidarity fund. Of course, it was necessary to extend its existence, we will all agree, but, as we have repeatedly mentioned, we are contesting the scale. And since you're pretending to be listening to the field, hear that this scale is unsuited to the crisis. It tends to forget the smallest companies and the most precarious self-employed. I repeat this example: an independent person recording a 40% decrease in his usual turnover of 1200 euros would therefore receive only 720 euros of business income, without receiving any compensation, because the decrease in his turnover does not reach 50%. On the other hand, the same independent person with a 50% loss on his usual turnover of 3000 euros would receive an income of 1500 euros plus compensation. So you will see that there is a double standard. In this regard, I would like to point out that we are in favour of a tiered scale, which would have the merit of smoothing the national effort and of supporting companies more equitably according to their situation. In addition to this first complaint, since 1 January, the Solidarity Fund has only been open to the most difficult sectors and activities. This restriction of the scope, albeit offset by an increase in aid in certain sectors, poses a serious threat to certain actors, who therefore do not feel as protected as you claim. Finally, with regard to the order for the reorganization of the BPIFrance group, we can certainly welcome the merger of two of its constituent entities – the public limited company BPIFrance and its subsidiary BPIFrance Finance – in that it will make it possible to have more funds available for guarantees and loans. However, we deplore the fact that it has even minimally brought in a private group, in this case BPCE – Banque populaire-Caisse d'savings – which was present in the capital of BPIFrance Finance. A private group will therefore participate in the exercise of the prerogatives of BPIFrance. These are the various objections that will lead the group La France insoubted to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u205	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u206	A year ago, the outbreak of the pandemic left us no choice. It was necessary to act quickly and forcefully, which is why the Libertés et territoires Group voted, in almost unanimity, on the law of 23 March 2020. At the time, we were really in an emergency. We will also vote for the ratification of these four ordinances, which have enabled the application of exceptional arrangements and which are now the daily life of a large number of economic actors. The first order concerns the solidarity fund, which has proved its usefulness. This mechanism has been extended until 16 February and it is likely that it will need to be extended further in the light of the current epidemic situation and the expected developments. In committee, I had shared numerous uphill reports of misunderstandings by small entrepreneurs about the accessibility of the solidarity fund. Indeed, the conditions for benefiting have changed no less than four times in a few months. The rapporteur replied that it was very complicated to provide for measures adapted to a situation which had changed and whose duration was unknown. I do not dispute this, even if we want to underline the lack of clarity that many companies suffer. Of course, the expansion of the Solidarity Fund in the autumn allowed new categories of companies to benefit from it, but its impact could be much greater if the scheme were simpler and clearer. In addition, last November, our group proposed the creation of a new fund whose operation would be decentralized, which would allow for a more flexible operation and the management of situations not provided for in the current legislative and regulatory framework. The second order concerns the temporary derogation from the public order code. This relaxation, which applies over a long period – until 31 December 2023 – is necessary and we find ourselves in an ambition to support fragile and close-to businesses. Our group supports the proposal of the rapporteur-general of the Finance Committee, Laurent Saint-Martin, to extend this derogation until 2024. Unfortunately, the evolution of the pandemic has led to a shift away from the prospect of a return to economic normal. The other two ordinances are also in the right direction. Indeed, increasing BPIFrance's own funds gives this institution additional means to act with companies. As for the derogation from ordinary law in respect of shareholder advances, it is also necessary to relieve cash flows. While these orders appear to be consensual, we would nevertheless like to make a number of observations. Firstly, we agree with the point made in the Committee on Finance by our colleague Véronique Louwagie on the issue of the over-indebtedness of the TPEs and SMEs weakened by the crisis. Turning some of the state-guaranteed loans into quasi-equity is an interesting avenue that we have mentioned on several occasions. In committee, we learned that several announcements were going to be made in this area. It would be desirable – to change – for parliamentarians to be involved in this reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u207	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u208	On the other hand, while business support measures partially meet the needs of SMEs, the Government's response to rent appears to be still insufficient. For several months, our group has been proposing a complementary measure with the creation of a support fund for commercial rents. It would be a simple and quickly accessible device for immediate efficiency. In addition, many local and regional authorities have launched initiatives to support the economic fabric with specific aid. We call for the review of legality to take into account the exceptional nature of the difficulties. And I would also like to call on the State to take into account the scale of the economic and social crisis in Corsica, as well as the unanimous will expressed by the Corsican Assembly to deal with it. Finally, we have noticed a change of speech over the last few days, as the Associate Minister for Public Accounts stated that massive support for businesses was meant to be phased out and that the time for the "no matter what" was over. So what will be the Government's road map? What are the scenarios envisaged by Bercy to reduce the deficit, which has reached an exceptional level? In his wishes, the President of the Republic stated that together we should build responses so as not to make debt a "burden for future generations". Does this "together" include parliamentarians from the various groups, who have not been involved in the decisions for a year? In any case, that is what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u209	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u210	Ten months after the Government has received permission to write the law and seven months after it has actually written it, we are finally required to legislate. These deadlines once again demonstrate, Madam Secretary of State, your deep indifference to parliamentary work, which, in your mind, seems to be limited to the approval of decisions already taken. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] So we can ask ourselves what is the meaning of this exercise that you are proposing to us tonight. You will understand that beyond the provisions contained in these four ordinances, on which I will not come back and which do not raise any particular opposition with us, we cannot vote in favour of a text that endorses this new way of making the law. The group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u211	It was concise!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u212	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u213	There is a fairly broad consensus on this bill. The crisis situation we are going through demands this: whatever our political colours, we must rise to the enormous challenges facing our country. It is never cheerfulness of heart that we agree to delegate our precious power as legislator to the executive, but the urgency of the situation obliges us to do so. The first order extends the existence of the Solidarity Fund and strengthens the exchange of information between administrations. As of 15 January, this fund amounted to EUR 12 billion and involved 1.9 million companies. It is therefore an indispensable tool to support our economy, and its role is particularly essential for the most difficult companies. I would like to repeat: as long as the epidemic forces us to take measures to restrict health, the state will give the economy full support. The second order contains several measures temporarily derogating from the public order code. It introduces various tools to support the economic operators most vulnerable by the crisis. The third changes the organisation of BPIFrance and thus strengthens its financial strength, which will allow for larger loan guarantee volumes. This will enable the Public Investment Bank to play its key role in the recovery plan. Finally, section 4 of the bill allows ratification of the June 17, 2020 order, which helps meet the cash flow needs of the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are times when the urgency of the situation dictates the urgency of action. Here we go. The La République group will therefore vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u214	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u215	For almost a year now, France has been fighting against the covid-19 pandemic, whose health, economic and social consequences are very hard on us. Companies are among the great victims of this crisis, which strikes them all the more because they do not see the end of it. The Republicans have always been in the public interest. As a matter of responsibility, we have passed the four amending finance bills for 2020, and we will of course vote for the ratification of these orders, which the threat of third confinement justifies all the more. Of course, we welcome these measures that are absolutely necessary to support our businesses. They strengthen their financial capacity, in particular by extending the benefit of the Solidarity Fund until December 2020. However, the validity of these orders, which ultimately only confirm the decisions we have already taken, must not make us forget the shortcomings that persist in the current business support arrangements. I recognize Bruno Le Maire's willingness to help companies in difficulty, but there are still room for improvement: everything is always perfect. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the shortcomings and shortcomings that remain, to raise problems up to you or to call your attention to certain points relating to the support of companies during the crisis. Like many of my colleagues, I have been alerted in recent days to the significant delays in the payment of aid from the Solidarity Fund for the month of December. These are vital, you know. However, companies receive them more and more later. On 24 January, many of them had still not been paid, even though they had to meet certain deadlines at the end of the month. Their situation is already complicated enough not to add anxiety to anxiety. Can you assure us that, next month, such delays will not occur again? As regards the payment of rents, the aid schemes are inadequate. Few companies were able to benefit from a rent cancellation for the month of November, offset by a tax credit for the owner. Enterprise rents remain a real problem. It also remains the burden created by the indispensable transformation of part of the EMPs into quasi-equity for the most fragile enterprises. This is a subject that we have often addressed in the discussion of the various PLFRs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, like the existing devices, these prescriptions go in the right direction, but there are still a lot of uncertainties that you need to dispel as quickly as possible. Otherwise, the crisis will not only be prolonged, but will get worse. It is imperative to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u216	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u217	Since March 2020, to deal with the exceptional health crisis caused by the covid-19, which has also become a financial and economic crisis, as well as a major social crisis, the legislator has very quickly empowered the Government to legislate by order. From March to June 2020, sixty-two orders were issued. Through the bill before us for debate, the Government is proposing four ratifications in the economic and financial fields. Let's start with the solidarity fund. Its scope has made it an effective tool to support companies most affected by the health crisis. Its plasticity makes it possible to modify the aid according to the evolution of the epidemic. Thus, the eligibility criteria have been adapted several times to the health situation and restrictions on businesses. However, if these developments are necessary, they shall not affect the legibility of the device. It is therefore up to the Government to ensure that the eligibility rules are clear and well appreciated by economic actors, relying in particular on the network of consular chambers, in direct contact with companies in our territories. In these, particularly in mine, located in the Alpes de Haute-Provence, chambers of commerce and industry were essential partners of the companies most affected by the economic crisis. Their work has been remarkable during this difficult period. More than ever, they have demonstrated the essential role they play with all economic actors. It is therefore necessary to maintain as much as possible this territorial support, which must remain of quality and flexible enough to adapt to the situation of each of the firms most in difficulty. I have sufficiently criticized the reduction in production taxes, which primarily benefits the major groups, less affected by the crisis, so as not to recognise the virtues of this aid for the companies that break our territories. In the same vein, the fourth order setting up the current-account advance system will help to support the cash flow of firms in difficulty at little cost to help them meet their commitments. As far as the rules for the eligibility of public order are concerned, we will have to be careful that fair and transparent competition is ensured. I will conclude with the reorganization of the Public Investment Bank. In a context of crisis and economic difficulties for businesses, the increase in its investment area is obviously a source of satisfaction. BPIFrance is an essential operator of the recovery plan for the years 2020 and 2021. It should be noted that the group needs to detail nearly €2.5 billion of climate products consisting of green loans for SMEs and ETIs in order to enable them to reduce their energy consumption. Thus, in an exceptional situation, the ordinances have enabled us to provide adequate and rapid responses to our businesses. It is now up to us, as parliamentarians, to bring them into the legislative order in order to legally secure their content.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u218	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u219	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u220	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u221	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the measures, in particular the aid provided for by the Solidarity Fund, are not adapted to the unprecedented crisis in the mountain tourism economy. It is likely that, for four months, our companies will see their turnover drop by 90%, which in the traditional economy would represent a 90% drop in their turnover for a year. Indeed, these tourism companies earn 80% of their earnings in four months, even though they pay rents and pay expenses over a whole year. The current arrangements will not allow them to survive. Today, there is a great distress in our stations, where we expect answers. To cite one example, the issue of newly created or recaptured enterprises is still not addressed. In the classical economy, one might say that it is not so serious, because in two months, the economy can start again; But for us, catching up can only happen in a year's time. In other words, this year some people will have no income. Managers who have invested a lot in a company – commercial funds are expensive in the stations – and who were expecting revenue, will not receive any income in 2021, and they are still not eligible for the solidarity fund. So I'm making an alarm call. Newly created businesses have been forgotten. We ask you to provide dedicated assistance or to adapt the arrangements to the specific nature of the tourist economy of our mountains, otherwise our companies will not recover from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u222	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u223	Madam Member, for three years in the Committee on Finance, I have seen that your statements are often motivated and legitimate. I assure you that, under the direct and voluntary command of the Prime Minister, Bercy's services are working day and night to build a plan to support the economic sectors and the actors of the mountain. You, who were elected from the mountain, have been able to bring these specific concerns to the attention of the ministry. [[Smile]] In Rennes, where I was a few days ago – yes, I noticed that Rennes is not in the mountains –...
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u224	Good observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u225	...we talked about polyactivity with entrepreneurs. The subject is taken over by Bercy. We are working on it day and night and will undertake massive action, of several hundred million euros, to the extent of the damage – the word is weak – suffered by the economic actors you defend. From tomorrow morning, I will pass on your message to my neighbour Olivier Dussopt and to my minister responsible, but I know that they have already heard it. I personally guarantee that a plan will be presented shortly for the amount I have quoted and that it will be up to the support deserved. I'm sorry for delaying our debates for a moment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u226	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u227	It seemed important to me to make that point.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u228	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u229	The Solidarity Fund was established by the Order of 25 March 2020 and amended by both section 18 of the Order of 22 April 2020 and the Order of 10 June 2020. However, of these three pieces of legislation, the bill only provides for the ratification of the June 10, 2020 order. For the sake of consistency, I propose that you also ratify the Order of 25 March 2020 and section 18 of the Order of 22 April 2020, so that all texts relating to this fund have the same legal value.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u230	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 4 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u231	The amendment aims to reinforce the logic of this order and to include, in addition to TPE-SME's share in the execution of the contract, the location of the companies that execute it. The measure is economically virtuous, as it will accompany local economic development, and ecologically, since it will limit business journeys and thus reduce the carbon balance of the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u233	Unfavorable opinion. It is already possible for a public actor to retain a local company, if the mission entrusted to it by the market so requires, because of its proximity. On the other hand, geographical location cannot be used as a criterion without the risk of restricting free access to public order and compromising the equal treatment of candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u235	The intention is virtuous, Mr. Dufrègne. As Secretary of State for Social Economy, Solidarity and Responsible, I share your concern for the proper management of public order and responsible purchasing policy. In this regard, we push the files to Bercy and move forward. I'd love to talk to you about this in the next few weeks. We have not escaped the fact that public procurement is a formidable stimulus, which we hope will stimulate the activity of our SMEs. I would remind you, however, that we are part of the European framework. However, I myself had the opportunity to verify this when I was a Member of Parliament, a proposal like yours is contrary to the commitments, in particular the agreement on public procurement, which we have signed within the Union. That is why, if I adhere to your substantive approach, and even if the Government is at your disposal to move forward with you, I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u236	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u237	It concerns Order No 2020-739 of 17 June 2020 and specifies that the authorisation of the absorption of the umbrella company BPIFrance SA by BPIFrance Financière SA is carried out by decision of the governance bodies of the entities of the group, in accordance with the provisions of the Commercial Code. It thus goes back to an amendment to the text voted by the committee, which provided that a decree made on the report of the Minister responsible for the economy should proceed with the merger.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u238	It's clear! With this, we're well lit.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u240	Favourable opinion. I had proposed in committee to secure the merger within BPIFrance by a decree on the report of the Minister of the Economy, but your proposal is better suited.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u241	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2021-01-27-O1139.u242	Next meeting, this morning, at nine o'clock: Discussion of the bill to improve the accessibility of persons with disabilities to retail stores and shopping centres; Discussion of the proposal for a law to simplify the access of forest experts to cadastral data; Discussion, at second reading, of the bill to respond to patient demand through the creation of points of reception for immediate care: Discussion of the proposal for a law renovating the governance of the public drinking water and sanitation service in Guadeloupe; Discussion of the proposed law to reform the system of compensation for natural disasters. The meeting is adjourned.
